<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev1"><a id="page_8"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>BOIL AN EGG</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><strong><span class="cl_4A4B62">You will need a small saucepan, an egg, a large spoon and a timer.</span></strong></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Fill the pan with sufficient water to cover the egg. Place the pan on the stove and bring the water to a rolling boil. Gently lower the egg into the water with the spoon and reduce the heat to a gentle boil. Cooking times are based on medium-sized eggs (for large eggs add 30 seconds extra):</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> 6–7 minutes for soft-boiled.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> 9–10 minutes for a firmer set.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> 12–14 minutes for hard-boiled.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">When done, lift the egg out of the water. For softer-boiled eggs, tap the top to crack the shell and prevent further cooking and serve. For hard-boiled eggs, drain the water from the pan and run the egg under cold water to cool it and prevent grey yolks.</span></p>
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>HOW TO SEPARATE EGGS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Have two bowls, a saucer and a small cup ready. Carefully crack an egg onto the saucer. Place the cup over the yolk to contain it, then drain the egg white into one bowl. Tip the yolk into the remaining bowl. Repeat this process until all the eggs required are separated. Don’t skip the cup and saucer process—one broken yolk in the whites will ruin the whole batch.</span></p>
</body>
</html>