<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev4"><a id="page_11"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE A SALAD DRESSING</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">You will need good quality olive oil, white wine vinegar or lemon juice, salt, Dijon mustard, runny honey and a clean, empty jam jar with a lid. This dressing will go well with any kind of leaf or raw vegetable salad; your friends will beg you for the recipe.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">As a base, use three parts olive oil to one part white wine vinegar or lemon juice and put these into the jar. The oil coats the salad ingredients and the acid in the vinegar or lemon cuts through the oiliness and adds zing.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Add a pinch of salt, half a teaspoon of Dijon mustard and half a teaspoon of runny honey. If you don’t have honey, dissolve half a teaspoon of sugar in a tiny amount of boiling water.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Put the lid on the jar and shake the ingredients to blend them. Taste and adjust, if necessary, by adding more of any of the above ingredients as required. This quantity will be sufficient for one serving bowl of salad.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">You can vary the ingredients as you wish. Use red wine, balsamic or cider vinegar instead of white wine vinegar or lemon. Add a pinch of dried oregano or a grind of black pepper. Try grainy French mustard instead of Dijon.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Remember to give the dressing a good shake before you pour it over the salad as the ingredients will separate, or serve in a jug and give your guests a spoon for stirring. Any leftover dressing can be stored for up to three months in the fridge.</span></p>
</body>
</html>