<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev12"><a id="page_19"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>COOK A STEAK</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Remove the steak from the fridge an hour before cooking so it comes up to room temperature. Rub the meat all over with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Heat a thick-based frying pan or griddle. Make sure it is extremely hot before adding the steak (if you can hold your hand 6 inches from the pan/griddle for more than a second it’s not hot enough). Once the steak has been added to the pan, turn the meat once a minute for even cooking until done as desired.</span></p>
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> The most popular cuts of steak are rump and rib-eye for depth of flavor, while pricier sirloin and fillet are chosen for tenderness.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Fillet steak is cut thick so it may require a minute or so more cooking time. A steak served medium-rare to medium will be juicy and full of flavor. Cook for 6 minutes for medium-rare or 4 minutes for a thin steak. You can always cook steak a little longer if it’s too pink but you can’t undo it if it is overcooked.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Well-done steak can risk being tough and dry; however, if you prefer not to see any pinkness to your meat then a longer cooking time will suit you. Allow 8 minutes in total, depending on thickness.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Test the steak with your finger. A medium-rare steak will have a bit of give, while a well-done steak will feel firm to the touch. Once the steak is cooked, rest it on a plate for 2–4 minutes to allow the juices to flow. This settling process encourages a tender finish. Add a little extra oil or butter if preferred.</span></p>
</body>
</html>