<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev13"><a id="page_20"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>STUFF AND ROAST A CHICKEN</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Hygiene is extremely important when handling raw chicken as it carries bacteria that are only killed off when the bird is thoroughly cooked. Throw away packaging carefully and wash any utensils or surfaces that have been in contact with the chicken with hot, soapy water—not forgetting your hands.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Heat the oven to 375ºF.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Lift the neck flap of the chicken, at the end nearest the wings, and fill the stretchy skin with as much stuffing as will fit into it. Tuck the flap end under.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Place the chicken in a baking tray. Rub softened butter all over the breast and legs and season with salt, pepper and a sprinkling of herbs. Roasting time depends on weight. A 3-pound chicken will take around 1 hour and 20 minutes.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>4</strong></span> Check it’s done by inserting a sharp knife where the inner thigh and breast meet. The juices should run clear with no trace of pink. Lift the chicken onto a serving dish or board and let it rest for 10–15 minutes before carving.</span></p>
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>TRADITIONAL SAGE AND ONION STUFFING</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Peel and finely chop a small onion.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Add in approximately 3.5 ounces of breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoon of sage (fresh or dried), salt and pepper.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Add enough water to bind the mixture together: around 2–3 tablespoons.</span></p>
</body>
</html>