<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev34"><a id="page_45"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>REMOVE STAINS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Act fast to avoid permanent staining and use the right product for the type of stain. Wash after treatment.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Soak blood stains in cold water immediately.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Solvents are needed to treat substances that are not water soluble, such as paint, tar or make-up. Solvent products that specially treat stains are readily available. To treat a stain with solvents, place one pad of white kitchen towel, or a clean cloth, under the stain and use another one to dab at it with the solvent.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Pen marks will lift off when dabbed with hair spray.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Rust can be removed with white vinegar or lemon juice.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Apply white vinegar diluted with water to grass stains.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Soak acid food stains like tomato for 30 minutes in white vinegar. Rinse and put a little detergent directly onto the stain before washing.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Talcum powder absorbs grease and oil marks on clothes or suede shoes. Pile on and leave for 20 minutes. Shake off the powder and bang out any residue by hand. Repeat for stubborn stains.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If you’re out and about, blot the worst off a food stain. Unless it’s a dry-clean only item, dab with water to dilute—this makes it easier to wash out later. Don’t rub at the stain as this will push it further into the fibers.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Heavy-duty white cottons can be bleached to remove stains but delicate fabrics can’t withstand this treatment.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Stain removers can take out dye on colored fabric. Test on an inside seam before applying.</span></p>
</body>
</html>