<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev41"><a id="page_54"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CLEAN A WINDOW</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Grimy windows are harder to clean, so to keep things easy clean all the glass twice a year and bring extra light into your home.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Clean windows on a dull day as strong sunlight can dry windows too quickly, leaving streaks.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Before starting, clear the space around the window you intend to clean. Protect the floor or surrounding furniture from water splashes. Remove dust and cobwebs with a brush.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Squirt a little dish soap into a bucket of warm water—too many soap suds are harder to wash off the window. Alternatively, add two tablespoons of vinegar to the water. Wet a sponge and squeeze well before you apply it to the glass to avoid drips. Rub the sponge over each pane, inside and out, to remove the dirt.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Purpose-made window cleaners can be sprayed directly onto glass and polished off, but strong versions can damage paintwork or soft furnishings.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Work a rubber-bladed squeegee down the glass from top to bottom in an S-shaped motion to push the water down and off the surface. Clean the blade from time to time with a rag to remove the dirt.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Use a clean, slightly damp microfiber cloth, chamois leather, or a worn-out T-shirt to take off any remaining water. An old trick of professional window cleaners is to use scrunched up newspaper to add sparkle and shine to dried windows, although you will end up with newsprint on your hands!</span></p>
</body>
</html>