<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev43"><a id="page_56"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>GET STAINS OUT OF A CARPET OR UPHOLSTERY</strong></span></p>
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>UPHOLSTERY</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If fabric is removable and washable, sponge the stain with cold water or soak the fabric in a bowl of cold water for approximately 30 minutes. Treat with pre-wash stain remover before machine washing according to the fabric type.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For fixed furnishing fabric, blot the stain as much as possible. Mix a small squirt of dish soap with cool water so it’s not too soapy and sponge the stain with a clean, white cloth. Blot up all the liquid and repeat the cleaning process until the stain has disappeared. Sponge with cold water to remove any soap and blot dry.</span></p>
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>CARPETS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Act particularly fast on red wine stains! Blot the stain continuously with dry, white paper towel until you can’t see any color on the paper. Remove a shoe and press lightly with your foot on the paper towel to help blot. Don’t rub, as this will set the stain further into the carpet fibers. Add a little water and continue to blot. This technique can be employed for any type of liquid carpet stains.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For food stains, gently lift off thick spills and chunky pieces with a blunt knife before attempting to blot. Use diluted dish soap (as directed in the “Upholstery” section above) or spray with a good carpet stain remover, following the manufacturer’s directions. Repeat if necessary. Vacuum when the area has dried.</span></p>
</body>
</html>