<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev51"><a id="page_66"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PREPARE A WALL FOR PAINTING</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Painting a room is relatively quick to do and the finish can look professional if the preparation is done well.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Move all the furniture to the center of the room and cover with old sheets, disposable dust covers or newspaper to guard against paint splatters. Cover the floor well with similar protection, taping protective coverings to the floor edges before painting skirting boards to protect the floor from paint drips.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Dust walls and all paintwork—including chair rails, picture railings, moldings and baseboards—to prevent particles from clogging up the new paint. Wipe down kitchen and bathroom walls with a sponge and soapy water to remove grime and grease and leave to dry before painting. Fill cracks or holes with filler (see “Fill a crack or hole” above) and scrape away any cracked or flaky paint.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Protect window frames, baseboards, picture rails, light switches, wall light fittings and power outlets with closely fitting strips of masking tape. Take time to apply the tape carefully as this will allow you to paint the walls speedily.</span></p>
</body>
</html>