<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev66"><a id="page_82"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>DRY OUT A WET MOBILE PHONE/LAPTOP</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The trick with all electronic devices is to let them dry out without pressing any buttons. Pressing them risks letting more water seep into the device, possibly causing irreparable damage, so employ restraint: it might save your gadget. It’s equally important to remove the battery to prevent damage from short-circuiting, so on a device with a built-in battery you will have to press buttons to shut it down.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For phones, remove the cover, if there is one, and the SIM card. Dry the device with a towel or paper towel. Fill an airtight container with uncooked instant rice or couscous and bury your phone in the middle. Pop the lid on and leave the grains to draw out the moisture for 24–48 hours. It’s important to be patient because if water remains now it may cause rust and corrosion later.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Laptops are more at risk from drink spillages, so it’s sensible to keep drinks well out of range. A laptop might survive an encounter with a glass of water but the sugar content of fizzy drinks and wine could be your electronic lifeline’s sticky end. Disconnect it from the power source and any cables. Once you’ve shut it down and removed any batteries, leave it open and turn it upside down; tilt to drain out the liquid. Keep it upside down while blow-drying it with a hairdryer on the “cool” setting for 15–20 minutes. Leave it in a good position to dry for 24 hours (maybe inside an airing cupboard) before attempting to turn it on.</span></p>
</body>
</html>