<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev71"><a id="page_88"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CHANGE WINDSHIELD WIPERS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Change your wipers at least once a year. It is easier to replace the complete blades, rather than just the rubber inserts. Most cars have the U hook type of blades but check your vehicle’s manual for instructions before you attempt to remove them.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Take the old blades into the shop with you when you go to buy the new ones and check whether they’re compatible with your car’s make and model before you purchase. You may be surprised to find the driver’s side wiper is longer than that of the passenger’s side; this is normal.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Change the blades with the wipers stopped in a vertical position on the windshield. Half-turn your ignition on to position the blades.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Carefully lift a blade away from the windshield until it clicks into a right-angled position, then turn the blade until it is at a right-angle to the wiper arm. Depress the small clip that joins the blade to the wiper arm while moving the blade downwards and then upwards to unhook it. Gently lower the arm against the windshield. Repeat with the other blade.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">To fit the new blades, hold each one at right-angles to its wiper arm, feed it through the gap in the arm and push it upwards into the U hook until it clips into place.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Replace the wiper blades outside the shop you bought them from in case you need assistance. Don’t throw away your old wipers until you are sure the new ones work.</span></p>
</body>
</html>