<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev73"><a id="page_90"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CHECK YOUR CAR</strong>’<strong>S TIRE PRESSURE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Keeping tires properly inflated is key to braking performance, grip and reduced fuel consumption. Check them once a month when you fill up with fuel.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">How much air to add depends on your specific car make and model and the load you are carrying. A car heavily-laden with vacation luggage and four passengers will need more pressure than normal. Follow the manufacturer’s recommendation in your car’s manual.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Park next to the tire pressure gauge at a gas station. You may have to pay a small charge for this service. Find the tire valve sticking out of the wheel rim. Unscrew the cap.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Pressure is measured in pounds per square inch (PSI) and bar. The machine should display in both and may have a control button so you can switch to your preferred type of measurement. The plus and minus signs on the machine allow you to set the pressure you want.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Go around the car, attaching the tire pressure gauge’s hose to each tire in turn. The machine will check the pressure that you set and pump in more air, as needed. It will beep and stop when the pre-set level has been reached. When all tires have been checked return the hose to the machine and replace the valve caps.</span></p>
</body>
</html>