<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev91"><a id="page_116"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>HELP SOMEONE WHO</strong>’<strong>S HAVING AN EPILEPTIC FIT</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A seizure happens when there is electrical activity in the brain; there are many different kinds. This is what to do if someone is having a convulsive (tonic-clonic or clonic) seizure:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t move them unless they are in a dangerous place, but do move furniture and other objects away from them.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Note the start and finish time of the seizure.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> If they haven’t collapsed but appear confused or unaware, comfort them and make sure that they are not able to hurt themselves.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Talk to them calmly and quietly.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Support their head with something soft if they are on the ground.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Loosen any restrictive clothing round their neck to help their breathing.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t put anything in their mouth, including your fingers.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> When convulsions have ceased, turn them so they are lying on their side and stay with them until they’ve recovered.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The CDC advises you should dial 911 if it’s the first time someone has had a seizure; the seizure lasts for more than five minutes; or if the person doesn’t regain full consciousness, or has a series of seizures without regaining consciousness.</span></p>
</body>
</html>