<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev106"><a id="page_134"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MANAGE YOUR FINANCES</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">To manage and plan your spending, first work out a budget. Record your income and what you spend each month. For example:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Recurring monthly payments:</strong> Rent/mortgage, utilities, taxes, pension, loans.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Daily and general expenses:</strong> Travel, food, fuel.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Extras:</strong> Entertainment and leisure, vacations, Christmas, parties, unforeseen bills.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Savings:</strong> Money for future plans and contingency for some of the extras.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Being aware of what you’re spending makes it easier to work out what to trim. For example, cutting back on take-out and coffee shop treats could fund a fantastic vacation.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Insure against the worst happening: it can save you from possible mega bills if it does.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Try to only have one credit card and put on it only what you can afford to pay off each month in full. The credit facility can be a lifeline in emergencies, but not if your card is maxed out.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Download any of the well-rated apps available to manage your own spending, or to divvy up expenditure with others.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Start saving for your pension as soon as possible—doing this as a regular drip-feed of savings from your twenties onwards will have a dramatically better outcome than starting in your thirties. Financial wizards estimate that you need to put aside 12.5 percent of your salary for 40 years before you retire to build up a safe pension pot. Part-time work in later life is a developing trend, but this depends on continued good health and the ability to secure that employment.</span></p>
</body>
</html>