<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev107"><a id="page_135"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PAY OFF DEBT</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Borrowings for mortgages, student loans or loans for specific items are positive, since they reward you with the gain of a home, a degree, or a useful or desired purchase—as long as you can afford the payments. However, you’re in the danger zone if you’re running up an overdraft without having enough income to clear it. Unless it’s tackled, debt can set you back for years due to high interest charges; it may also give you lower credit scores.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A firm action plan is required:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Calculate what you owe to whom. Don’t leave anything out.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Draw up a budget including a schedule for repaying your debts. Prioritize: items such as mortgages, utilities and taxes come first.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Pay off as much as you can. If you only make the minimum monthly payments it will take you considerably longer to make any headway with the overall sum.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t borrow any more money or incur any additional debts until you’ve repaid your existing ones.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Curb your spending by cutting up your credit and store cards, or giving them to someone you trust for safekeeping. Take a set sum of cash out of your bank account once a week and live off that only.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Switch to a cheaper credit card or loan provider to keep the interest from racking up on your current debt. Some offer 0 percent interest for an initial period. Note when the 0 percent period is up and switch again. Check for balance transfer fees and annual charges.</span></p>
</body>
</html>