<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev116"><a id="page_146"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>WRITE A THANK-YOU NOTE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A thank-you note needn’t be long, but a promptly sent handwritten one goes down well—particularly with the older generation. With your contemporaries, you may get away with a text message or an email, but a handwritten note shows more consideration.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A friend might ask you to celebrate a milestone birthday, join them on vacation or invite you to their wedding, but if it’s their parents who are paying it’s to them that thanks are due.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you don’t possess headed paper or cards, a note card will do fine. Choose your best pen—black or blue ink is preferable—write your address in the top right-hand corner, put the date underneath and add the salutation on the left-hand side.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If witty words don’t come naturally to you, plan what you are going to write beforehand. Start by thanking the recipient—for the invite or the present in question—and then reference memorable highlights. For example: the host’s generosity; how much you enjoyed yourself/liked your present; the quality of the food/wine/entertainment/setting/speeches; and who you enjoyed meeting. Don’t stint on complimentary adjectives; they may feel a little over the top when putting pen to paper but it will give the recipient a glow of pleasure to read them. Expand with your hope to see them soon, a return invitation or good wishes for a forthcoming event in their lives.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Sign off with “Yours sincerely”, “Best wishes” or “Love”, as appropriate, before your name.</span></p>
</body>
</html>