<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev121"><a id="page_151"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>WHISTLE WITH YOUR FINGERS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It will take a bit of practice to produce more than a splutter so be prepared to experiment until you find your personal sweet spot to achieve an ear-splitting whistle. Don’t give up and you’ll get there in the end.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Choose the finger combination that feels the most natural to you. Most people plump for one of the following:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Forming a closed “C” shape with the thumb and forefinger of one hand.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Making an “A” frame shape with the index finger of each hand.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Both the index and middle finger of each hand.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The technique is the same for any of these.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Start with clean hands. Cover your bottom set of teeth with your bottom lip. The harder you press your lip down into your teeth, the louder your whistle will be. With your chosen finger shape, push down on your lip with the first joint of your digits. Curl your tongue back and use your fingers to keep it there.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Take a deep breath to fill up your lungs with air and close your lips together. Exhale as fast as you can through the gap between your fingers.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Keep practicing until you achieve a good result. Take a break if you feel dizzy from too many in-and-out exhalations. Adjust the position of your fingers, lips, mouth and tongue until you find what works for you.</span></p>
</body>
</html>