<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev126"><a id="page_158"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>SAY,</strong> “<strong>I</strong>’<strong>M SORRY</strong>”</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Saying “sorry” is a challenging but inevitable part of life. Here are some tips to make saying that little word a bit easier.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Say sorry whenever it is warranted. It can often go a long way to mollifying an increasingly tense situation.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Confess when you’ve done the wrong thing. Don’t think that an apology demeans you in any way; in fact, not apologizing is much more likely to do so. Saying “I’m really sorry” doesn’t automatically lead to forgiveness when you have hurt someone or done something wrong; it’s a step in the right direction though.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Mean what you say. Do resist saying “I’m sorry” in a sarcastic tone, it tells the other person you think they are unnecessarily touchy and that they are wrong to expect any kind of apology. Instead, aim to be sincere.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If the situation that required the apology is more serious, you may need a strategy for moving forward in a positive way with the person or people concerned. Ask if there is anything you can do to make it up to the other person. Do you need to state that you will modify your behavior or promise not to let a similar situation occur in future? This is part of reassuring others that you are genuine in your intentions not to repeat the same mistake.</span></p>
</body>
</html>