<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev127"><a id="page_159"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>SAY,</strong> “<strong>THANK YOU</strong>”</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">“Thank you” is one of the most powerful phrases in your lexicon. Never neglect to say it frequently as an act of appreciation for what others have done for you, even on the smallest scale. Express your thanks on notepaper, or in the form of a tangible gift if appropriate, and you will build a reputation for being considerate and kind. Always be sincere when you offer thanks.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Show thanks and gratitude by text or email when work colleagues, clients and comparative strangers have helped you, or if you are asking for their time and assistance. Thank and praise your colleagues to their face, whatever level they are—not just for big pieces of project work or new business wins, but for everyday things like finding something for you, adapting an image or rewording something, or putting themselves out for you when they have a pile of other things to do. Go further when you can and tell them what a good job they have done. Watch them smile in appreciation.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It costs very little to say thank you but it makes a world of difference to others and to how others perceive you. (And don’t forget that other essential—to frequently say “please”!)</span></p>
</body>
</html>