<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev128"><a id="page_160"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>SAY,</strong> “<strong>NO</strong>”</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Are you a pushover when someone asks you to do something? Can you cope when you are asked for a favor out of your comfort zone? For example, a friend wants a loan: your mind is screaming “no” but you don’t know how to sidestep the request. In this circumstance, it helps to refuse in a way that doesn’t leave the friend feeling they’re untrustworthy. For instance, an all-encompassing, “I’ve made it a rule never to lend money to friends.” Explanations phrased in a way that don’t sound like personal rejections are a good strategy. On some occasions, offering an alternative works well. When asked by your boss to do an additional task in the workplace that’s not going to fit your workload, say, for instance, “Project X is what I’m working on now, can this wait until afterwards, or do you want me to reprioritize?” They might not have remembered you have so much to do and you are not refusing to help. A friend might ask, “Can I bring my new girlfriend round to dinner, too?” If this doesn’t suit say, “I’ve already got as many as I can manage coming but why don’t we arrange a night out together, so I can meet her?” Being able to say “no” is one of the most valuable skills you can learn. It will make sure you don’t take on too much, keep you from feeling resentful and allow you to prioritize what’s important in your life.</span></p>
</body>
</html>