<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev135"><a id="page_167"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>ASK SOMEONE OUT</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A first date is about reaching out to learn more about the other person if they are a stranger, or an affirmation that you are taking a deeper interest in someone you already know. Perhaps your motivation is based on the desire for a physical relationship.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Just because you ask someone out once, it doesn’t mean that you will spend a lifetime together. On the other hand, it might be just what you are looking for and this obviously can and does happen!</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s acceptable to text someone to suggest meeting up. Face-to-face encounters will require you to do the talking. Suggesting a decisive plan makes a good start—for example, “Would you like to come with me to the Skyline Bar on Thursday night for drinks and then to Oka for dinner?” You’ll soon gauge from their reaction if you are being turned down, or whether offering an alternative night would be fine; it’s better to know where you stand and take a refusal on the chin—you can’t win them all. Alternatively, play safe and suggest coffee or lunch as this is a more ambiguous social setting, then fix a time and place.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Bear in mind that noisy venues and going to a movie on a first date are not the best places to choose if you want to talk.</span></p>
</body>
</html>