<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev136"><a id="page_168"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>BREAK UP WITH SOMEONE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Do as you would be done by. That means no cowardly text or email, or engineering a conversation to make them dump you. Do it face-to-face as direct contact will help the other person process why you are leaving with less room for ambiguity.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Be considerate about timing your break-up. Hang on if your other half is in exam mode, just lost their job or received other major bad news. Avoid pre-Christmas, Valentine’s Day or birthday break-ups if possible, too.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Call the meeting and clarify that you want to talk about your relationship. Ideally, avoid public spaces. Think about what you want to say before you meet and how the other person might react. Be as honest as possible but not deliberately hurtful. Get to the point and be clear that you are serious about ending things to avoid giving hope that you might change your mind. Prolonged break-ups can be messy for both of you.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you’ve made your point and given the chance for questions to be asked, but your ex is saying the same thing repeatedly, be firm: state that you’ve said what you needed to say and now it’s time for you to go.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Whether you stay in touch, follow each other on social media, or still share friends is down to both of you. Sometimes it’s easier to get over a relationship if all contact is severed.</span></p>
</body>
</html>