<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev137"><a id="page_170"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>SHAKE HANDS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A handshake is a way to introduce yourself to another person and connect with them in a sincere and friendly way. Traditionally it’s a sign that you come in peace, stemming from the days when men carried swords and daggers—a handshake created a bond of trust as it was proof that you weren’t holding a weapon.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s customary to let the person in a higher position of authority take the lead on the handshake by extending their hand out first for you to clasp in yours, firmly without exerting unnecessary pressure. The actual shaking part of the greeting should only last for a few seconds. Look to the initiator to break contact before you do.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Look the other person in the eye as you shake hands and maintain that contact as your hands part. Don’t cup their elbow or touch them with your other hand in a business situation, or if you’re in doubt in a social situation.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Bone-crushing grips are unwelcome and can be unpleasantly painful for those on the receiving end, particularly so for women with slender hands and be-ringed fingers. On the other hand, limp handshakes brand the giver as weak and are not ideal either. Try not to show you mind if you are presented with a sweaty palm.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">When doing business abroad, check up on handshake protocol—there can be wide variations.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For instance, never offer your left hand in the Middle East; in China shake hands with the oldest people first; don’t shake hands in Thailand!</span></p>
</body>
</html>