<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev141"><a id="page_174"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CONTROL YOUR TEMPER</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Anger is a normal emotion. Even the most equable of us can find our temperament strained to the point where we lash out. However, it can cause problems to you and others around you if you find it difficult to keep it under control. Equally, simmering and sulking is perturbing to others around you, particularly if they are nothing to do with the source of your anger.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Anger management is not about suppressing anger, but rather finding ways of recognizing when your temper is flaring up and channelling control. The idea is that instead of blowing your top in a way you may later regret, you implement a strategy to diffuse the anger and communicate your feelings effectively.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Next time you feel anger rising, try counting to ten before you react. Give yourself a moment to assess the situation. Is your temper justified? Could you have misunderstood something? Is there another perspective to consider? Walk away for a minute or two, do some deep breathing and come back. If you’re frustrated with repeat behavior from a family member, friend or colleague, present a solution.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Anger can be ingrained in your personality, but relaxation techniques and regular exercise can help reduce tension and stress levels and refresh your mind-set.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you find yourself angry with life on a daily basis, there may be some underlying unhappiness that’s causing you distress which should be addressed. Finding a level of contentment can diminish angry thoughts and negativity.</span></p>
</body>
</html>