<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev148"><a id="page_181"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE A DECISION</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Making the right decision can be full of responsibility. It can be the difference between success and failure, or favoring a morally decent course of action over personal gain. Others may be affected or the decision, once taken, could be irreversible.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Fear of the outcome can make people timid about making a decision—this can drag out the decision-making process, sometimes resulting in a lost opportunity. By all means mull over the possibilities, but don’t lose too much momentum.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Look objectively at a decision to be made by formulating a plan. List pros and cons in two separate columns for decisions that are straight choices between two options. Committing these to a list, rather than leaving them to swirl around in your head, can focus your thoughts and speed up the process.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Where there is a range of alternatives to consider, list these too and add some questions. For example:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Who will it affect and how?</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> What are the consequences now and in the future?</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> What could go wrong?</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Look further than the immediate solution that presents itself, as it won’t necessarily be the best. Gather all the information to help you decide. Take professional advice where appropriate. Discuss any dilemmas with neutral parties and factor in their reactions and advice. Even just voicing the options to others can lead you to think differently about the decision.</span></p>
</body>
</html>