<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><div id="Copy">&#13;
<p class="copyH">Copyright © 2018 by Summersdale Publishers Ltd.</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">First Racehorse Publishing Edition 2020.</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any manner without the express written consent of the publisher, except in the case of brief excerpts in critical reviews or articles. All inquiries should be addressed to Racehorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10018.</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">Racehorse Publishing books may be purchased in bulk at special discounts for sales promotion, corporate gifts, fund-raising, or educational purposes. Special editions can also be created to specifications. For details, contact the Special Sales Department, Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10018 or <a href="mailto:info@skyhorsepublishing.com">info@skyhorsepublishing.com</a>.</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">Racehorse Publishing™ is a pending trademark of Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.<sup>®</sup>, a Delaware corporation.</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">Visit our website at <a href="http://www.skyhorsepublishing.com">www.skyhorsepublishing.com</a>.</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">Cover artwork by <a href="http://Shutterstock.com">Shutterstock.com</a></p>&#13;
<p class="copy1">Interior artwork credited in the back matter</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">Print ISBN: 978-1-63158-492-3</p>&#13;
<p class="copy1">E-Book ISBN: 978-1-63158-494-7</p>&#13;
<p class="copy">Printed in China</p>&#13;
<div class="copy2">&#13;
<p class="copy1">Disclaimer</p>&#13;
<p class="copy1">Neither the author nor the publisher can be held responsible for any loss or claim arising out of the use, or misuse, of the suggestions made herein.</p>&#13;
</div>&#13;
</div>&#13;
</body>
</html>
