<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev9"><a id="page_16"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE A BOLOGNESE SAUCE</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Here is an adaptation of Italy’s most popular pasta sauce. In this recipe ground lamb is suggested instead of the traditional ground beef.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-c"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>(Serves six. Prep and cooking time: 40 minutes)</strong></span></p>&#13;
<div class="top">&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 lb ground lamb</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Splash of olive oil</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 large onion, finely chopped</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 large carrot, peeled and finely cubed</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 garlic clove, peeled and crushed</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 large glass of red wine</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">14 oz can chopped tomatoes</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Pinch of <em>herbes de Provence</em></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Dash of Worcestershire sauce</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 tbsp of tomato purée</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">5-6 medium mushrooms, chopped</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1 beef stock cube, dissolved in 1/2 cup of hot water</span></p>&#13;
</div>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Heat the olive oil in a thick-bottomed saucepan over a medium heat. Add the onion and carrot and cook gently for 5 minutes, or until the onion is translucent and the carrot softened. Add the garlic and cook for a further minute.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Meanwhile, add the lamb to a hot frying pan and turn it quickly with two wooden spoons or spatulas. Brown until there is no visible raw meat. Drain the fat from the meat into a dish and set aside.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Add the browned lamb to the pan of softened vegetables. Add all the other ingredients and heat until bubbling. Turn down to a simmer and cook with the lid off for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. If the sauce becomes too thick add a splash of water. Season with salt and pepper to taste.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Ladle onto cooked spaghetti and sprinkle with grated Parmesan.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
