<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev14"><a id="page_21"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CARVE A ROAST</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A sharpened carving knife is essential and a long carving fork is useful for steadying joints as you cut. A metal carving dish with prongs to grip the meat will also help to retain heat. Warm plates and serving platters in the oven for a minute or two to avoid dishing up lukewarm meat.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Rolled joints with no bones are the easiest to carve as they require simple vertical slicing along the length of the roll. Remove any string from slices before serving. For rolled pork, it’s easier to remove the whole rack of crackling off the joint and break it into strips rather than attempting to cut straight through both at once.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Carve chicken by slicing vertically through one side of the breast, then cut vertically through the leg to create a drumstick and then at the thigh to give two leg joints. Detach the wing. Repeat on the other side. Slice any stuffing into sections.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Leg of lamb or pork is carved in small slices parallel to the big bone running through the joint.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For shoulder joints, use your finger to find the shoulder bone. Cut down into the meat on one side of the bone. Turn the knife to cut horizontally and remove the chunk of meat in one piece. Repeat on the other side of the bone before turning the joint over and cut the bone from the underneath. Trim off any remaining bits of meat. Carve the large pieces into slices against the grain.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
