<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev22"><a id="page_30"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CHOOSE WINE</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Shop at a wine store where advice is readily available. Helpful, knowledgeable sales staff combined with shelf signs to give guidance are good starting points. Some shops will also let you taste certain wines for free; others encourage you to buy a selection of sample glasses of fine wines for a modest price.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Supermarkets have some good selections and deals on mixed cases and half-cases, which are a good way to find favorites. Online wine companies and societies can offer a good choice for a regular commitment or modest joining fee.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Look beyond sexy labels on the front of the bottle. Instead, focus on the words on the back to identify what you might like: dry, crisp, acidic, fruity, sweet, light, well-rounded, full-bodied, oaky and so forth.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> It’s an idea to be wary of wines described as “table wine” as these are cheaper blends. They may be good but there is a risk that they will lack depth of flavor, or that they are unbalanced in composition.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> For complementary wine and food pairings, light wines tend to pair well with lighter foods like chicken and fish, while full-bodied wines go with richer foods such as red meat and strong cheeses. Contrasting flavors can match, too—check bottle labels for pairing guidance. Spicy foods work well with a crisp, acidic, white wine with a medium to low alcohol content.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
