<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev25"><a id="page_33"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>POP A CHAMPAGNE CORK</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Provided the bottle has not fallen over or been shaken up, this technique should ensure that you can crack it open in style without spilling a drop (but have a cloth handy, just in case!).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">With your champagne flutes at the ready, unpick a little of the foil around the bottle neck to access the flattened twist of wire which holds the metal cap in place (called the “cage”). Untwist the wire to loosen the cage but don’t remove it from the bottle. Keep your hand over the cork to keep it safe, and be careful to not point it at anyone in the room or at anything valuable.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Grasp the bottle firmly by the base in one hand and hold the cork with the other. Make sure to keep the bottle at a 45-degree angle. Twist the base of the bottle gently keeping hold of the cork as it comes out—you will still experience the satisfying pop as it releases and see the appealing vapor wisps rise into the air. This is the most sophisticated way to open a champagne bottle and keeps you firmly in the driving seat.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Occasionally, the cork can be stubborn. If you come across resistance, alternate the twisting motion with a little upward leverage with your thumb, while keeping hold of the cork, until you achieve the desired result.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
