<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev32"><a id="page_42"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>DO YOUR LAUNDRY</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Wash at high temperatures (140°F or above) to kill bacteria and keep whites brighter. Run the washing machine monthly on empty at 200°F to maintain performance.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Sort your dirty laundry into piles for separate washes:</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Whites for a hot temperature wash (bedding, towels, underclothes, tea towels, dishcloths, flannels).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Colored cottons suitable for a hot wash (as above).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Whites for a warm wash (shirts, T-shirts, skirts, shorts, jeans, trousers).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Coloreds for a warm/cool wash (as above).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Delicates for a cool/gentle wash (silk, lace, mesh, synthetic clothing).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Woolens and silk (sweaters, scarves, gloves). Wash these by hand unless you have a hand-wash/woolens or silk setting on your washing machine.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Colors will run on some clothes if they’re not washed at the correct temperature.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Wash similar colors together (i.e. light colors or dark colors).</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If clothes are only lightly soiled, select the quick wash function on your washing machine.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Because of their absorbent nature, towels need less washing detergent than other items.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><a id="page_43"/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Close zips and link up hooks and eyes so they can’t catch on other items.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Empty the machine as soon as possible after the load has finished to prevent clothes smelling damp.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>DRYING CLOTHES WITHOUT A TUMBLE DRYER</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If hanging clothes outside is not practical, a heated drying rack is a good investment. Pin pants, jeans and skirts at the waistband; shirts, tops and T-shirts should be hung from the shoulders or dried on hangers. Don’t overlap clothing as items will take longer to dry. Dry woolens flat to keep their shape.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
