<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev39"><a id="page_52"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>VACUUM A ROOM</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Ideally, carpets, rugs and other floor areas need cleaning once a week to stop dirt from building up, help to prevent allergy flare-ups and control clothing moths. Always dust a room before you clean the floor, as particles will inevitably drop downwards in the process.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Use the right tools for the job: hand-held vacuums are fine for small areas but you’ll need something bigger to tackle a whole room. There are many lightweight, high-powered vacuum cleaners on sale as well as bagless, cylinder-style models.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Vacuum the room systematically, moving small items of furniture out of the way beforehand.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Make sure that you shift beds and large items of furniture away from the wall periodically to suck up the dust underneath.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Make good use of the attachments to lift dust and dirt from upholstery, awkward spaces and the gap between the floor’s surface and the baseboard.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Vacuum in all directions, letting the vacuum head linger long enough in one place to shift dirt effectively. Most vacuum cleaner heads have different height settings for cleaning different surfaces. Cleaning on the right setting can make a huge difference to the end result.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Change your vacuum bag or empty your cylinder before they fill up or the vacuum cleaner will lose much of its efficiency. For the same reason, never re-use vacuum bags.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
