<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev44"><a id="page_57"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CLEAN A TOILET</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Don’t just flush and run when you’ve been. Check the toilet to be sure it’s in a pleasant condition for the next person. Take the long-handled toilet brush, usually found in its holder beside the toilet, and scrub away any stubborn residue or streaks left after flushing. Tap the arm of the brush against the side of the seat to shake off drips before transferring back to its holder. It’s considered good manners to leave the toilet seat down—and the lid, too—particularly after a longer visit!</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Toilets should be deep cleaned once a week to keep germs and viruses at bay, or more often if there’s been a virulent stomach bug in your household. Wear rubber gloves, kept for this purpose, if preferred.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Carefully squirt strong, thick bleach under the inside rim and round the toilet bowl, or use a special-purpose toilet cleaner for the job.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Leave this on for around 10 minutes to neutralize bacteria while you work on the outside of the toilet (including the flush handle and the area around the seat hinges). Work from the top down to the floor with toilet cleaner and a disposable cloth. Then clean all the seat surfaces, including the lid and the rim under the seat.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">With the toilet brush, scrub away at any stains or limescale marks under the rim and inside the toilet bowl. Tip waste water from the toilet brush holder down the toilet. Add a little bleach to the bottom of the holder. Then shut the toilet lid and flush away the bleach.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s a good idea to wash the sink and bathroom door handles at the same time.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
