<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev52"><a id="page_67"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PAINT A ROOM</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Decide on your color once you’ve experimented with samples. Cover a large area of the walls with two coats of the sample color and wait for them to dry before you make your final decision. Remember, the color will look different on a wall in direct light.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Choose the type of paint finish to suit the room: satin and gloss paints are cleanable and therefore good for kitchens and bathrooms; eggshell is popular for walls in rooms with less wear and tear. Make sure you buy enough paint for the job—dark colors and patterned paper can take three coats to cover. Bare plaster will also need a coat of primer.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Stir paint before starting so the color is evenly mixed. If you’re using a roller, cover your paint tray in foil or tight-wrapped cling film before adding paint to make the clean-up op a cinch. Tip enough paint to fill the well of a paint tray a third full. Load the roller with paint by dipping in the tray and rolling it on the flat part of the tray to remove excess paint. Don’t over-saturate the roller or the paint will run and drip.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Always start with the ceiling. Use a paint brush on corners, edges and round light fittings first before using a hand-held paint roller for bigger areas. Use an extension pole on the roller to reach up high. When painting walls work systematically, with a “W” action, blending the paint evenly.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Remove all the masking tape when the paint is dry and leave the windows open to disperse the fumes. Clean brushes and roller equipment in cold water if the paint is water-based. For oil-based paint, soak items in turpentine.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
