<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev76"><a id="page_93"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>FIX COMMON BIKE PROBLEMS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>RECURRING FLAT TIRES</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Check the PSI recommended on the side of your tire to see if your tire pressure is too low. Otherwise, check for debris that might be present inside the tire, or whether the tube has been caught between the rim and the tire.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>GRINDING CHAIN</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A lack of lubricant will make the chain grate, which can be recognized by a grinding sound. Check the lubrication of your chain every few weeks. Alternatively, your chain may be worn or your derailleurs may need adjustment. Likewise, excess lubrication can cause the chain to skip and attracts dirt to the chain and cassette (the rear gears). Clean them both with a degreaser (available from bike stores) and a small brush, rinse and dry. Add one drop of lubricant to each roller while turning the cranks backwards two or three times. Wipe off any excess on the outer side of the chain as you continue to spin it.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>WHEEL OUT OF ALIGNMENT</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Readjusting a wheel that’s been knocked out of alignment (out of “true”) takes practice, so if you are not confident it’s best to take your bike into trusted shop to fix this problem.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>CHAIN KEEPS COMING OFF</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The chain can come adrift if you pedal hard while changing gear. However, should this still happen when you pedal softly, seek professional help from a bike shop. They will need to adjust the front derailleur, which moves the chain from one chainring to the next—a small alteration can damage the works if you’re not skilled at this.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
