<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev81"><a id="page_102"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PURIFY WATER</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">There are many ways to make water safe to drink. Here are some of them.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>BOILING</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">This is a reliable method but may not always be the most convenient. Bring the water to the boil over a campfire or stove, in a pan or heatproof container, and keep it at a rolling boil for 10 minutes.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>WATER FILTERS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>Drip filters</strong> have a pouch, rather like a medical IV drip, and use gravity to drip the water through a filter. The water can then be sucked through a plastic hose. Survival straws are a robust form of drinking straw attached to a lightweight water filter to let you drink as you go. <strong>Pump-action filters</strong> push water from one tank, through a filter cartridge, into the clean water tank on demand. These can come with large capacity tanks for group camping.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>DISINFECTING TABLETS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Tablets are either iodine- or chlorine-based. Depending on the type, they can take from around 35 minutes to 4 hours to purify water. Iodine tablets work faster but they are not recommended for pregnant women or people with thyroid problems. All tablets tend to leave a disinfectant after-taste, particularly the iodine ones, but it’s possible to remove this effect with neutralizing tablets.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
