<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev102"><a id="page_130"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>APPLY FOR A JOB/WRITE A COVER LETTER</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">While many jobs these days involve online applications, it is still a common requirement to send your resume and a cover letter or email.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For the letter, follow the rules for formal letter writing and always quote the job reference in the header to clarify which job you are applying for. The letter needn’t be long and mustn’t exceed a single sheet of paper, so don’t ramble. It needs to supplement your resume by focusing on why you want the job principally, as well as your suitability and enthusiasm for the role. Find a way to reference a positive fact about the company so it shows you’re up-to-date about what it does and where it is heading.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you’re not confident about spelling or grammar, ask a family member or friend to read the letter before you send it off. If you are applying online or by email, save your letter as a PDF as any computer can view this file format.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you are writing on spec to see if a company you’d like to work for has a vacancy, do your research on the organization. Look up who you should address the letter to and address them by name, if possible. This will help your letter stand out!</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s rare to be asked to apply in writing. Should this be the case, write neatly and legibly using a good pen and simple writing paper. Choose an envelope big enough to accommodate your resume without overfolding it.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
