<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev103"><a id="page_131"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>ACE AN INTERVIEW</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Whether you’re doing your interview online or face-to-face, treat it seriously and do your research beforehand. Practice delivering some answers before the interview. Be clear on why the organization needs you and how you can add value.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you are being interviewed online, set up your device with a plain background behind you and in a quiet room where there will be no interruptions. Position the camera so you can be seen from the waist up. Test all aspects of your tech before the interview. Make eye contact with the camera, sit up straight and don’t talk too fast.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Dress in the style appropriate for the company or organisation you hope to join. If you’re doing a face-to-face interview, arrive early and don’t be spotted checking out your phone screen while you’re waiting to be called in. Ensure it’s switched off before you arrive.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Group interviews are often conducted to see how you might work with others as a team. Make sure you listen to what’s going on and that you are seen to say something. Dilemmas may be posed to test how you might handle a client or customer query; your approach to the issue might be more important than knowing the “right” solution.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Try to appear relaxed in a one-to-one interview, without coming across as nonchalant. Aim to make at least 50 percent of the contribution to the dialogue. Sell yourself and your talents well but know when to stop.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
