<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev108"><a id="page_136"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>UNDERSTAND EMAIL ETIQUETTE</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Clarify the topic concisely in the subject line and update it if the discussion changes.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Never put anything in an email that you wouldn’t say in public.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Use good English—no slang, text abbreviations, emojis or inappropriate exclamation marks. Re-read your email before you send it. Check for typos or missing attachments.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Stay formal until you know your recipient better. “Dear” can become “Hello” or “Hi” over time. Likewise, stick with “Kind regards” or “Regards”—”Best wishes” comes later.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Have a proper email signature set-up which includes your name, title and full contact details.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Respond to all points raised by the sender. Be clear on what the next actions should be.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Thank recipients if they’ve done something helpful; thank them in advance for something you’re asking them to do.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Send large or numerous attachments via a file transfer system and notify the recipient.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t fire off a reply when you are angry. Wait until your emotions are under control.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Protect people’s privacy when emailing groups by hiding their email addresses in a “bcc” box.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Pick up the phone, make a Skype call or FaceTime. Sometimes issues need discussion that’s better handled by a conversation. Follow up with an email once an action has been agreed.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
