<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev110"><a id="page_138"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MANAGE YOUR TIME</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Procrastination is your enemy! Vow to start early in the day to achieve more and crack on.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Make a “To do” list of tasks to be accomplished. Date your list and refresh it periodically; write it by hand if you’re motivated by seeing how many items you have completed. Put a dash against items that can’t be finished until others have been responded to, to show yourself some progress, and break down big tasks with sub-entries to tick off as you work through them.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Each day, tackle the two or three most important tasks first. Focus on these crucial jobs without distraction and tick them off your list. You’ll have done what’s essential and feel good that your load has been lightened.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Set yourself a target time limit for completing tasks—for instance, doing a set amount of work before lunch. Be realistic about how long it will take you to do a task and don’t beat yourself up if it was more complex than it first appeared. Don’t let unimportant details in the task ambush your time. The key to completion is to not let unnecessary distractions eat away at your time, so keep cell phones out of sight and unrelated browser windows shut until you’re done.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Keeping a separate “To do” list for personal things that need to be done or remembered, or that you would like to do, can also help with time management in your private life.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
