<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev120"><a id="page_150"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>GIVE A TOAST</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Although the host traditionally proposes the first toast on most formal occasions, when friends gather informally, as a guest you can toast your host to thank them for their hospitality and any other reason you wish—friendship, long life, love, congratulations, good fortune or happiness.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Toasts should not be confused with speeches; they should be kept short and to the point.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Before leading the toast at a semi-formal occasion, check that the guests’ glasses and your own have been charged before commencing. Attract everyone’s attention by standing, or sitting yourself in a prominent place.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Briefly introduce yourself and the reason for the gathering. Go on to express a goodwill wish towards the future of the person(s) concerned—for example, “May you be ever light of heart and calm of mind.” Ask the assembly to raise their glasses by raising your own glass while saying, “To [name of person/subject of toast].” They should respond by repeating your toast. Take a sip from your glass which will allow them to follow your example.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If all around you are seated, ask them to, “Please stand and raise your glasses to…” Official toastmasters at formal events will use more flowery language: “Lords, ladies and gentlemen, please be upstanding for…” Note that at a wedding reception, etiquette dictates that it’s the best man’s job to propose the first toast.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
