<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev130"><a id="page_162"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>ASK FOR HELP</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">There is no weakness in asking for help. On the contrary, the weakness is in thinking you know the answer to everything.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">We all need help to thrive, accomplish and develop. This often includes asking for help from others to fill in gaps in our own knowledge or understanding, or for advice in solving a dilemma. Other people can often point us in the right direction, even if they can’t provide a direct answer.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">You might be surprised to find that people often want to help you, as it makes them feel good and useful. Phrase your request in a flattering way to unlock this instinct. You might say, “I’m a bit stuck and I know you’re just the right person to help me with this” or “Please may I ask for your advice?” There may be occasions when you are physically ill and need help. Your friends and family will undoubtedly ask if you need help, but to turn the kind offers into actual action requires you to be specific about what sort of help you need—for example, buying and preparing food, picking up medication, changing bed linen or providing transportation. Ask your willing helpers to take on an errand. Match the task to the person’s strengths and your comfort level if the task is an intimate one. Resist micromanaging how it’s done and always thank your helpers, no matter how small their contribution.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
