<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev131"><a id="page_163"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>GIVE A COMPLIMENT</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Complimenting others should figure in your armory of social skills. It’s an excellent way to show appreciation and give praise where it is due.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Remember to do it, but be mindful not to overdo it or be too fulsome in your offer of praise—you don’t want to make the other person uncomfortable.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Charm others with compliments but always be genuine and sincere.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Compliment people on specifics about their personal taste and skills, such as their clothing, interior decorating, cooking or singing. Saying something rewarding about another’s personality trait will be regarded as special but you need to know the person well for this.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Be mindful of paying compliments to someone you are making a sales pitch to—you are more likely to put them on their guard.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Never underestimate how motivating praise can be, in or out of the workplace. A compliment paid on a small thing well-done can be just as important as acclaim for a big project—sometimes it’s more important. Encouragement at just the right moment can boost a flagging morale or buy you willingness from someone else to go the extra mile when you need a favor.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If you hear good things about a person when they’re not present from a third party, do pass it on and watch them smile.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Finally, remember: a backhanded compliment isn’t a compliment; it’s a snide remark.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
