<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev138"><a id="page_171"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE FRIENDS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Relocating to a new city can prise you away from your home-based friends. If you are a new undergraduate, there are many opportunities to meet fellow students during Orientation Week, through joining societies, participating in sport or on your course. Taking a new job in a strange place means those ready-made chances of friendship are not available. You’ll need to work harder to reach potential friends and it can take a while to build a new circle of people.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Accept invitations from your new work colleagues, unless it’s completely out of your comfort zone. They and their wider friendship group might help you to meet new companions.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Joining a club or group, or participating in local community activities, can provide other routes to potential friendships.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Be bold enough to strike up a conversation. Be likeable by being interested in that person. If you get on well and would like to see them again, suggest that you exchange contact details. There may be a common activity you’ve discovered in conversation that you can do together.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Organize a gathering and suggest your new acquaintances bring another friend along.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Remember that patience is often required. While instant connections can turn into lifelong friendships, with some people you have to let it bubble along, getting to know them by degrees until they are ready to deepen the acquaintance.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
