<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev142"><a id="page_175"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>LODGE A COMPLAINT</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Contact the business that you have a grievance against as soon as possible by phone, email or letter. Address your complaint to the head of the department if you can.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">In the case of a purchase from a seller or an issue with a service provider, check their terms and conditions first to understand your rights. Set out your complaint in the body of an email or letter and include copies of relevant receipts, invoices and contracts. Quote any reference numbers in your correspondence. Keep a copy of your complaint and all the documents you include with it.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you can’t resolve the issue satisfactorily with the company concerned you may be able to take it to an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR). Companies operating in certain sectors are obliged to offer this service. Other industry sectors such as builders and vacation companies might be signed up to their relevant trade association. These types of bodies can offer independent mediation and arbitration to help settle the issue. Arbitration outcomes are final and you can’t take your complaint further if you don’t like the outcome.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Contacting an ombudsman is an option when you can’t agree with a company over service or administrative errors.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Taking a company to the small claims court for amounts of up to about $5,000 is the ultimate action you can employ, but you will need to prove that you have tried other ways to seek reparation. The claim ceiling in other states and countries may vary.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
