<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev145"><a id="page_178"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>REMEMBER NAMES</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Ever been introduced to someone who doesn’t look like their name? You’ve been told she’s called Anna and your focus is lost as you decide they look like more like a Sandy. Suddenly, you can’t remember what they’re really called because you’ve lost concentration.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Train your brain to cope with remembering names as it makes people feel valued—plus it’s rude if you come out with the wrong name and makes you appear rather foolish.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Start by making sure that you listen; if you’re busy thinking of what you are going to say next, you’re not listening.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Resolve to concentrate hard to hear a name when you are next introduced to someone and repeat their name back to them as you greet them while you look them in the eye. Commit the name to memory. Build up your technique so you can cope with trickier group introductions.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Find a way that works for you to retain the name. This can be by referencing the person’s name in the subsequent conversation, or finding a visual or linguistic association. For example, picture in your head another Anna you know—a friend, relative or celebrity. Try a mnemonic for complicated names, so Kim Kardashian might become “Kim dashes to the car with Ian”. Maybe you can remember a physical feature better to make the connection, or fix upon an item of clothing.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">After a party or a business event, try to review who you have met and recall their names again.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
