<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><section data-mw-section-id="0">&#13;
&#13;
<div class="prp-pages-output" typeof="mw:Extension/pages" about="#mwt3" xml:lang="en">&#13;
<span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-49" data-page-number="49" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/61" data-page-index="61" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/61"/></span><div class="tiInherit" style="text-align:center;">&#13;
<h2>VI</h2>&#13;
<h2>the furniture that went mad</h2>&#13;
</div>&#13;
<p><span class="smallcaps" style="font-variant:small-caps">Now</span> it happened that in the early hours of Whit-Monday, before Millie was hunted out for the day, Mr. Hall and Mrs. Hall both rose and went noiselessly down into the cellar. Their business there was of a private nature, and had something to do with the specific gravity of their beer. They had hardly entered the cellar when Mrs. Hall found she had forgotten to bring down a bottle of sarsaparilla from their joint-room. As she was the expert and principal operator in this affair, Hall very properly went upstairs for it.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>On the landing he was surprised to see that the stranger's door was ajar. He went on into his own room and found the bottle as he had been directed.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>But returning with the bottle, he noticed that the bolts of the front door had been shot back, <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-50" data-page-number="50" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/62" data-page-index="62" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/62"/></span>that the door was in fact simply on the latch. And with a flash of inspiration he connected this with the stranger's room upstairs and the suggestions of Mr. Teddy Henfrey. He distinctly remembered holding the candle while Mrs. Hall shot these bolts overnight. At the sight he stopped, gaping, then with the bottle still in his hand went upstairs again. He rapped at the stranger's door. There was no answer. He rapped again; then pushed the door wide open and entered.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>It was as he expected. The bed, the room also, was empty. And what was stranger, even to his heavy intelligence, on the bedroom chair and along the rail of the bed were scattered the garments, the only garments so far as he knew, and the bandages of their guest. His big slouch hat even was cocked jauntily over the bed-post.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>As Hall stood there he heard his wife's voice coming out of the depth of the cellar, with that rapid telescoping of the syllables and interrogative cocking up of the final words to a high note, by which the West Sussex villager is wont to indicate a brisk impatience. "Gearge! You gart what a wand?"&#13;
</p>&#13;
<div class="__nop wst-nop"/>&#13;
<p> <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-51" data-page-number="51" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/63" data-page-index="63" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/63"/></span>At that he turned and hurried down to her. "Janny," he said, over the rail of the cellar steps, "'tas the truth what Henfrey sez. 'E's not in uz room, 'e ent. And the front door 's unbolted."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>At first Mrs. Hall did not understand, and as soon as she did she resolved to see the empty room for herself. Hall, still holding the bottle, went first. "If 'e ent there," he said, "his close are. And what 's 'e doin' without his close, then? Tas a most curious basness."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>As they came up the cellar steps, they both, it was afterwards ascertained, fancied they heard the front door open and shut, but seeing it closed and nothing there, neither said a word to the other about it at the time. Mrs. Hall passed her husband in the passage and ran on first upstairs. Some one sneezed on the staircase. Hall, following six steps behind, thought that he heard her sneeze. She, going on first, was under the impression that Hall was sneezing. She flung open the door and stood regarding the room. "Of all the curious!" she said.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>She heard a sniff close behind her head as it <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-52" data-page-number="52" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/64" data-page-index="64" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/64"/></span>seemed, and, turning, was surprised to see Hall a dozen feet off on the topmost stair. But in another moment he was beside her. She bent forward and put her hand on the pillow and then under the clothes.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"Cold," she said. "He's been up this hour or more."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>As she did so, a most extraordinary thing happened,—the bed-clothes gathered themselves together, leapt up suddenly into a sort of peak, and then jumped headlong over the bottom rail. It was exactly as if a hand had clutched them in the centre and flung them aside. Immediately after, the stranger's hat hopped off the bed-post, described a whirling flight in the air through the better part of a circle, and then dashed straight at Mrs. Hall's face. Then as swiftly came the sponge from the washstand; and then the chair, flinging the stranger's coat and trousers carelessly aside, and laughing drily in a voice singularly like the stranger's, turned itself up with its four legs at Mrs. Hall, seemed to take aim at her for a moment, and charged at her. She screamed and turned, and then the chair legs came gently but firmly against her <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-53" data-page-number="53" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/65" data-page-index="65" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/65"/></span>back and impelled her and Hall out of the room. The door slammed violently and was locked. The chair and bed seemed to be executing a dance of triumph for a moment, and then abruptly everything was still.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>Mrs. Hall was left almost in a fainting condition in Mr. Hall's arms on the landing. It was with the greatest difficulty that Mr. Hall and Millie, who had been roused by her scream of alarm, succeeded in getting her downstairs, and applying the restoratives customary in these cases.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"'Tas sperits," said Mrs. Hall. "I know 'tas sperits. I 've read in papers of en. Tables and chairs leaping and dancing!—"&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"Take a drop more, Janny," said Hall. "'T will steady ye."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"Lock him out," said Mrs. Hall. "Don't let him come in again. I half guessed—I might ha' known. With them goggling eyes and bandaged head, and never going to church of a Sunday. And all they bottles—more 'n it 's right for any one to have. He 's put the sperits into the furniture.—My good old furniture! 'T was in that very chair my poor dear <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-54" data-page-number="54" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/66" data-page-index="66" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/66"/></span>mother used to sit when I was a little girl. To think it should rise up against me now!"&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"Just a drop more, Janny," said Hall. "Your nerves is all upset."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>They sent Millie across the street through the golden five o'clock sunshine to rouse up Mr. Sandy Wadgers, the blacksmith. Mr. Hall's compliments and the furniture upstairs was behaving most extraordinary. Would Mr. Wadgers come round? He was a knowing man, was Mr. Wadgers, and very resourceful. He took quite a grave view of the case. "Arm darmed ef thet ent witchcraft," was the view of Mr. Sandy Wadgers. "You warnt horseshoes for such gentry as he."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>He came round greatly concerned. They wanted him to lead the way upstairs to the room, but he did n't seem to be in any hurry. He preferred to talk in the passage. Over the way Huxter's apprentice came out and began taking down the shutters of the tobacco window. He was called over to join the discussion. Mr. Huxter naturally followed over in the course of a few minutes. The Anglo-Saxon genius for parliamentary government asserted <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-55" data-page-number="55" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/67" data-page-index="67" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/67"/></span>itself; there was a great deal of talk and no decisive action. "Let's have the facts first," insisted Mr. Sandy Wadgers. "Let 's be sure we 'd be acting perfectly right in bustin' that there door open. A door onbust is always open to bustin', but ye can't onbust a door once you've busted en."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>And suddenly and most wonderfully the door of the room upstairs opened of its own accord, and as they looked up in amazement, they saw descending the stairs the muffled figure of the stranger staring more blackly and blankly than ever with those unreasonably large blue glass eyes of his. He came down stiffly and slowly, staring all the time; he walked across the passage staring, then stopped.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"Look there!" he said, and their eyes followed the direction of his gloved finger and saw a bottle of sarsaparilla hard by the cellar door. Then he entered the parlour, and suddenly, swiftly, viciously, slammed the door in their faces.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>Not a word was spoken until the last echoes of the slam had died away. They stared at one another. "Well, if that don't lick  <span><span class="pagenum ws-pagenum" id="id-56" data-page-number="56" data-page-name="Page:The Invisible Man - A Grotesque Romance.djvu/68" data-page-index="68" data-page-quality="4" title="Page:The_Invisible_Man_-_A_Grotesque_Romance.djvu/68"/></span>everything!" said Mr. Wadgers, and left the alternative unsaid.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"I 'd go in and ask 'n 'bout it," said Wadgers, to Mr. Hall. "I 'd d'mand an explanation."&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>It took some time to bring the landlady's husband up to that pitch. At last he rapped, opened the door, and got as far as, "Excuse me—"&#13;
</p>&#13;
<p>"Go to the devil!" said the stranger in a tremendous voice, and "Shut that door after you." So that brief interview terminated.&#13;
</p>&#13;
<div class="__nop wst-nop"/>&#13;
<p> &#13;
</p>&#13;
</div>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</body>
</html>
