<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev2"><a id="page_9"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>STORE FRESH FOOD</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Follow the storage recommendations on packaged foods. The “best before” date is intended as a guide for when the produce will taste best. The “use-by” date on items such as fish, raw meat, cooked products and ready meals deserves close attention as it’s these foods which could cause stomach upsets or full-blown food poisoning if the use-by date is not respected. Think of the “best before” as a quality guide and “use-by” as a health safety check. Make sure that you also finish these products within the stated time from opening—for instance, once opened use within three days.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Home-cooked foods and leftovers:</strong> Cool down, cover and refrigerate.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Meat:</strong> Store raw meat away from cooked foods and at the bottom of the fridge to prevent blood from dripping onto other food, which can cause food poisoning. Ensure that cooked meat is properly covered and refrigerated.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Fruit and vegetables:</strong> Store in the fridge if not using straight away or you don’t wish to ripen them. Onions, potatoes and apples can be stored on a surface away from direct sunlight or in a cool, dark place, such as a drawer or cupboard. Tomatoes should never be refrigerated as they will lose their flavor.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Eggs:</strong> Once eggs are refrigerated they need to stay refrigerated, in order to reduce bacteria growth. The FDA requires all commercial eggs to be stored and transported below 45°F, so all eggs bought at commercial US supermarkets need to be stored in the refrigerator immediately.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Cooked rice:</strong> Refrigerate as soon as it’s cool—ideally within 1 hour. Eat within 24 hours, either cold from the fridge or reheated until the center is hot. Never reheat more than once.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Shops sometimes display goods in chiller units because they are best served cold and to give them the appeal of fresh food. If in doubt, keep it in the fridge at home.</span></p>
</body>
</html>