<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev7"><a id="page_14"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE SOUP</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Here’s a simple, quick recipe to start with, which <strong>only requires an onion, a can of tomatoes, chicken stock and thyme</strong>.</span></p>
<p class="subhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>TOMATO AND THYME SOUP</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-c"><strong><span class="cl_4A4B62">(Serves two. Prep and cooking time: 15–20 minutes)</span></strong></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Peel and finely chop an onion. Melt a pat of butter in a saucepan over a low heat. Then add the onion and cook for 5 minutes until soft and transparent.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Add a 14-ounce can of premium chopped tomatoes, a crumbled chicken stock cube, a splash of water and a pinch of dried thyme.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Cook for a further 10 minutes. Cool, before blending by hand or in a blender. Heat again to desired temperature. Season and garnish with a splash of olive oil, swirl of cream or croutons.</span></p>
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Fresh stock or premium stock cubes give the best results. If you prefer to use vegetable rather than meat stock, add garlic for depth of flavor.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Use seasonal vegetables for optimum flavor.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Experiment with herbs and spices.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Thicken soup with potatoes, bread, pasta or more vegetables rather than flour, which is trickier to control and can result in a lumpy texture.</span></p>
</body>
</html>