<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev8"><a id="page_15"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>COOK PASTA</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><strong><span class="cl_4A4B62">You will need pasta, a large saucepan, water, salt and a colander.</span></strong></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Fill the saucepan with cold water, put the lid on and bring the water to the boil. Remove the lid and add a tablespoon of salt. Return the water to a rolling boil, add the pasta and stir once to separate it.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Spoon out one piece when it is 1–2 minutes away from the suggested cooking time. Cut it in half to see if it is cooked through. A white and grainy center means further cooking time is required.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Continue to test once a minute until the pasta is done. For <em>al dente</em> pasta—with a little bit of bite—remove from the heat before it is completely soft.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>4</strong></span> Have a colander ready in the sink, then drain the pasta into it. It is now ready to serve, or combine with sauce.</span></p>
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Choose a large pot or saucepan as pasta needs plenty of room to move around while cooking.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Allow 4 cups of water per 3.5-ounce serving of pasta. Salt generously.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If combining pasta with sauce, heat the sauce before adding to the pasta unless it is an uncooked or oil-based sauce (such as garlic oil or pesto).</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Serve pasta into deep, warm bowls to keep it hot for as long as possible.</span></p>
</body>
</html>