<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev16"><a id="page_23"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE A STIR-FRY</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Everyone loves a stir-fry. Simply throw all the ingredients into a wok and it’s ready in minutes. You’ll need a flat-bottomed wok if you’re cooking with electricity, as the whole base needs contact with the heat source.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Basics for stir-frying from scratch:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Preparing ingredients takes more time than the cooking.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Prepare all the raw ingredients and line up everything else you need before you start.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Arrange the ingredients in the order they need to be added: meat and hard vegetables need to go in before more leafy, watery veggies, as they need a longer cooking time; garlic, ginger and chili flakes can be added and cooked for a few seconds before adding any sauce.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Chop hard vegetables like carrots into thin slices and cut broccoli stems lengthways.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Noodles that need rehydrating can be cooked separately in boiling water according to the packet instructions and set aside until required.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> You’ll need to keep stirring the ingredients for even cooking.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Have bowls at the ready to enjoy your stir-fry as soon as it is cooked.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Once you get the hang of stir-frying, you can experiment with ingredients and there are many prepared components available to buy such as ready-cut vegetables, straight-to-wok noodles, seasoned meat strips and stir-fry sauces.</span></p>
</body>
</html>