<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev23"><a id="page_31"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>WASH DISHES BY HAND</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Use a dishwashing bowl if you’re tackling more than a few items. This will save effort and water. Wear rubber gloves if you want to protect your hands.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Begin by scraping leftover scraps into the trash, then rinse the worst residue off plates, pots, pans and cutlery in the empty sink and stack to one side. Place the dishwashing bowl in the sink, add a squirt of good quality dish soap and fill with hot water. When the bowl is full but not overflowing, turn off the tap and begin to wash the dirty items with a brush, sponge or dish cloth.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Rinse items once they are clean with warm or lukewarm water (which should be directed into the sink, away from the bowl). Keeping warmth in the water helps the items to dry quicker. When you’re done, wash the bowl inside and out with soapy water.</span></p>
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Put dirty cutlery at the bottom of the bowl as you’re running the water. It should be easier to clean once it has soaked a little.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Start to wash china first with a brush, sponge or dish cloth, using the stream of hot tap water.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> To prevent breakages, wash glassware separately using cooler water.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Change the water when it gets dirty and add more dish soap as necessary.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Stubbornly stained oven dishes can be soaked and cleaned with scouring pads—but use a softer sponge if they’re the non-stick variety. Use very hot water for this to cut through grease.</span></p>
</body>
</html>