<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev24"><a id="page_32"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>OPEN A BEER BOTTLE WITHOUT A BOTTLE OPENER</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">This is a great skill to whip out when someone relocates the only bottle opener at a party.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Find something that can flip open the top, such as a spoon. The indented metal lock within a door frame will also work—try not to use the inside of a wooden door frame as it risks leaving an indentation. Most can openers have a bottle opener, so check this too.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you’re nowhere near the kitchen, try levering the top off with another beer bottle inverted against the teeth of the cap. A key, a thin coin, a flat-headed screwdriver, the edge of the arm of BBQ tongs, or a burger flipper will also do the trick—as will the square end of a lipstick case. Even a single sheet of paper will work if folded lengthways to a tiny flat strip, folded in half and the fold used as a lever.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Don’t be tempted to use your teeth or a kitchen knife to do the job as this could result in an unwanted trip to the dentist or your local emergency room.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you’re a car owner, think about keeping a spare opener in the car for outdoor events and picnics. Or to save you the trouble next time, get a Swiss Army knife or a key ring with a bottle opener attached.</span></p>
</body>
</html>