<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev28"><a id="page_38"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>SEW ON A BUTTON</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Buttons have a habit of unravelling, so make sure to re-attach them before they come off completely and become lost.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Thread a needle with thread, either to match the button or other button threads.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Knot the end of the thread.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Pass the needle from the underside of the fabric through one of the tiny stitch holes from where the button was before.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>4</strong></span> Pull the thread all the way through so the knot is touching the back of the fabric.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>5</strong></span> Push the needle through any hole in the back of the button.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>6</strong></span> Move the button down the thread. Hold it in the correct position on the fabric.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>7</strong></span> Pass the needle through either the adjacent or opposite hole, depending on whether matching buttons have been stitched on diagonally or with parallel lines of stitching. Pull the needle out through to the underside.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>8</strong></span> Repeat the process so that threads pass through each of the button’s holes four to five times.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>9</strong></span> Don’t stitch the button on too tight or it will be hard to use. Wind the thread once around the underside of the button.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>10</strong></span> Fasten off on the underside of the fabric.</span></p>
</body>
</html>