<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev37"><a id="page_49"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PACK A SUITCASE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If you are traveling with carry-on luggage only you will need to pack liquids, gels and pastes in containers no bigger than 3.4 ounces—they’ll also need to fit in one airport-issue clear, plastic bag that reseals easily.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> To avoid leaving behind something critical, create a list in advance to help you focus when you pack. An electronic list can be adapted to different types of vacations or business trips where core items remain the same.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Air pressure can cause liquid toiletries to leak. Protect against this by wrapping items like nail polish, sunscreen and shampoo separately in small sealed plastic bags before zipping into a toilet bag.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Fold clothes for special occasions around triple layers of tissue paper. This does a terrific job in preventing creases.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Place heavier items such as shoes and toilet bags in the wheelie-end of suitcases to avoid crushing lighter items in transit.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> To save space, put clothes of the same size and shape together—for example, pile folded shirts or T-shirts neatly on top of each other. Alternatively, roll folded T-shirts together, stuff socks and underwear into shoes and fill in gaps with small items.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Put shoes in shoe bags or plastic carriers if you don’t want soiled soles to touch clothes.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Consider packing valuables and key items such as electronic devices, chargers and important paperwork in your carry-on luggage in case your suitcase goes astray.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Try not to over-pack; remember to leave room for a souvenir vacation purchase or two!</span></p>
</body>
</html>