<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev68"><a id="page_85"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CHECK AND TOP UP THE OIL IN YOUR CAR</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s worth checking the oil level of your vehicle every couple of months if your car is an old model. The consequential damage to the engine if it drops too low can be severe and horribly expensive.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">You will need a pair of rubber or latex gloves and some paper towel. Your car needs to be parked levelly and the engine cold before you start—this means waiting 30 minutes if you’ve recently driven it and 10 minutes if you’ve just re-parked it. Have the right engine oil for your car and a funnel handy, in case you do need a top-up.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Open the car hood (check your car’s manual if you can’t find how to do this) and disengage the safety latch to open it fully. Pull out the support strut and hook it into the roof of the hood.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The oil dipstick should have a brightly colored handle. Pull the dipstick out of the tube it’s lodged in. Wipe the oil off with a piece of paper towel. Insert the dipstick fully back into the tube. Take it out again. If the oil level is correct, the oil on the dipstick should be between the MIN and MAX markings.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Top up the oil if necessary, using the funnel. Pour slowly and be careful not to overfill as this can be damaging to the engine. Avoid spilling any oil as it is harmful to the environment if it gets into the ground or waterways.</span></p>
</body>
</html>