<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev69"><a id="page_86"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>HAND WASH A CAR</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Never leave bird droppings or insect remains on your car’s bodywork as these are corrosive. Soak or wash them off with water and a cloth, but don’t rub too hard.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Household detergents can be too harsh for cars. Only use the cleaning agents recommended by your vehicle’s manufacturer. Different car parts can only tolerate certain cleaners. For the same reason, keep separate cloths for the different solutions used. Have clean drying mitts in your collection and avoid dry, coarse or rough cloths.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Clean the wheels first, one at a time. Use a brush on the tire treads. Rinse as you go.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Next clean the roof and upper body panels, then work your way down to the dirtier bottom panels. Use two buckets of water—one to wash and one to rinse as you go. Change the water frequently. Rinse with a garden hose if you have one.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Use specialist car glass cleaner on interior and exterior glass rather than domestic glass cleaner. Wash plastic headlight lenses with windshield washer fluid that’s safe for plastic.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Dry and wax for ultimate shine and protection.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> High pressure cleaning jets need to be at least 1 foot from the car and not aimed directly at tires, electrics, seals, joints and trims.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Shake out interior mats, vacuum carpets and upholstery, wipe the dashboard, trims and steering wheel with a safe cleaning agent. Artificial leather can be rubbed gently with a damp cloth dipped in a 1:100 dilution of dish soap and water, then left to dry. Wipe genuine leather covers with a damp cloth.</span></p>
</body>
</html>