<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev75"><a id="page_92"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>DRIVE IN SNOW</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">When snow is forecast and driving’s a necessity, go prepared for the worst. Pack sturdy, non-slip boots, warm outerwear, a blanket, food and drink. Throw a shovel in the trunk and some old bits of matting or carpet for grip in front of the tires should you become stuck fast—gravel, sand or cat litter will also do the trick. A fully charged phone is a good precaution, as is a full tank of fuel.</span></p>
<p class="subhead-t"><span class="bg_tip"><strong>TOP TIPS</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Stay on main roads. Conditions should be better.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Drive with enough speed to maintain momentum but not so fast that you might lose control.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Aim to drive smoothly—no sudden acceleration, braking or sharp turns.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Steer your way out of trouble. Braking on icy roads can send the car into a dangerous skid.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Reduce your speed before you go down a hill.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t follow the car in front too closely. This allows extra space needed for slowing and stopping and will also avoid driving in the spray it throws up.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Think twice about passing. Tire tracks create pronounced grooves in the snow so you’ll need to steer out of these, over the snow heaped in the middle and back into them again; you’ll need to be sure your vehicle can handle this.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If your vehicle slides on ice, don’t brake. Instead, turn your wheels in the direction that the rear of the car is sliding to regain control. However, be careful not to over-correct.</span></p>
<p class="Snoindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> If snow is falling and it is daylight, drive with dimmed headlights.</span></p>
</body>
</html>