<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev86"><a id="page_108"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CARVE A PUMPKIN</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Choose a pumpkin with a flattish bottom that doesn’t list too much to one side.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Mark out your chosen design on the side of your pumpkin. The skin and flesh can feel a bit tough to carve through if you’ve never done it before. Select a simple pattern, like a grinning face, until you’ve gained some experience.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Draw a neat circle round the outside of the pumpkin’s stalk to indicate where to cut out the lid. Make the lid big enough to allow you to scoop out the flesh from inside and to be able to drop a tealight or LED light into the floor of its base.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Use a serrated knife to remove the lid. Scoop out the pulp and seeds with a large spoon or an ice cream scoop.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Hold the pumpkin steady with your free hand while you carve out your design with the serrated knife. Use a sawing motion to cut out the shapes as cleanly and safely as possible.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Once you’ve finished the decorative part place your tealight inside, ensuring there’s enough oxygen to keep it burning. If in doubt, cut a few extra holes in the pumpkin. Flickering LEDs can be effective and don’t burn out.</span></p>
</body>
</html>