<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev92"><a id="page_117"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PERFORM CPR</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If you’re not trained in how to do CPR, or how to use a defibrillator, call 911 first as the trained operator can talk you through the techniques until the paramedics arrive. This is particularly important for children and infants as their CPR procedures are different to adults’. If you’re not completely confident in giving rescue breathing then provide hands-only CPR.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">To provide hands-only CPR you will need to perform uninterrupted chest compressions until qualified medical help arrives.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Make sure the person is on their back on a firm surface.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Kneel next to the person’s upper body. Place the heel of one hand on the center of the person’s chest and, with the other hand on top of it, press down by about 2 inches.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Keep your elbows straight and your shoulders above your hands.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>4</strong></span> Press down at a steady rate of 100–120 beats per minute until help arrives.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s worth checking out a list of well-known songs with a tempo of 100–120 beats per minute and committing one to memory should you ever need to perform CPR. The Bee Gees’ “Stayin’ Alive” is a popular one, “Rumour Has It” by Adele and Justin Bieber’s “Sorry” also qualify. Spotify has an extensive CPR playlist for subscribers, or search for “CPR songs” in your browser to find the one that you will remember the best.</span></p>
</body>
</html>