<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev95"><a id="page_121"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>TREAT A CUT OR WOUND</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If the wound is bleeding, apply pressure with a sterile bandage or clean cloth until the bleeding stops.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For minor wounds, rinse the area with tap water. Clean around it with soap and water and a cloth but keep the soap out of the wound. Any particles of dirt and debris remaining should be picked out with sterilized tweezers. If you can’t remove all the pieces, go to your doctor for treatment to stem the risk of infection.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Cover the wound with a plaster; for bigger injuries, use a sterile gauze bandage taped in place. To avoid infection, change this at least once a day or whenever the plaster or dressing becomes wet or dirty.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For more serious wounds, elevate the affected area above your heart while you stop the bleeding. Keep the compression on the wound even if blood is seeping through the bandage or cloth. Add more bandage or cloth on top rather than removing the first layer, as this can disturb the clotting process. For bleeding that continues for more than 5–10 minutes, call your doctor for advice. Go to your local urgent care center if your wound is more than 2 inches long, has a jagged edge, is a bite or has been contaminated with other matter.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Call 911 for an ambulance if you can’t stop the bleeding or if arterial blood is spurting from the wound. Keep the pressure on the area until help arrives.</span></p>
</body>
</html>