<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev97"><a id="page_123"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CHECK FOR ABNORMAL MOLES</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Pick a room with good lighting and remove all your clothes. Start at your head and work your way down your body. Check all areas of skin thoroughly, including your scalp, behind your ears, around your nose, between your fingers and toes and—not forgetting the great divide—your bottom! Ask a trusted friend to help you check areas that you can’t see, or use a mirror.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The “ABCDE” of moles, used by dermatologists and other health bodies, classifies types to look out for:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Asymmetrical:</strong> Normal moles are round and grow evenly. Melanomas expand at an uneven rate and are therefore asymmetrical.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Borders:</strong> Unhealthy moles are prone to have ragged or blurred borders. Standard moles are rounder with clearly defined borders.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Color change:</strong> A normal mole is the same color throughout. A melanoma can vary in color. If a mole becomes darker in color this is a sign that it is possibly cancerous.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Diameter:</strong> Problem moles are usually larger than 0.25 inches but this is not a definite sign. Sizes of cancerous and normal moles can vary. Look for any changes in size.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Elevation or enlargement:</strong> Moles that become raised, inflamed or swollen need to be professionally checked, as well as those that start to bleed, crust or itch.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Check any suspicious mole with your doctor, who can refer you to a dermatologist if they think specialist treatment is required.</span></p>
</body>
</html>