<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev100"><a id="page_127"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>WRITE A RESUME</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Your resume is a summary of your education, work experience and skills. It should be no longer than two pages, unless you are a medic or academic with considerable experience to show.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Start with your name, address and contact details, then a short profile summary of yourself, for example:</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><em>I am an English graduate with experience in PR and marketing. As a natural communicator, I can interact with clients effectively and I can create and deliver campaigns that meet clients’ business objectives. I am keen to develop my management and people skills to new heights.</em></span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A traditional resume follows reverse chronological order, showing your most recent work positions first, then your education achievements, followed by skills and additional attainments such as proficiency in a foreign language or software programs. Finally, add your interests or hobbies if there’s space. If you’ve just left further education, list your academic background and achievements first and then any work experience. Always include dates.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Present details of your responsibilities and achievements in previous jobs in a succinct and compelling way. Where possible, link your interests to demonstrate your fitness for the job. For instance: if you’re applying for a job in fashion, reference your styling blog.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Format your information so it is easy to read and make use of bold type for headings and bullet points.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Rather than writing just one resume, tailor the content to highlight your suitability for each job you apply for.</span></p>
</body>
</html>