<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev105"><a id="page_133"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>NEGOTIATE A PAY RAISE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Preparation is all that’s needed to give you the confidence to succeed in a face-to-face negotiation. So do your research first:</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Check what the going rate is for similar positions elsewhere and assess what you’re worth. Based on your findings, choose a figure that would satisfy you and ask for a bit more so there is room to maneuver.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Think when you would like your new rate to start so you can bring this into your negotiation as necessary.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Request a formal meeting with your boss. Try to avoid a time when they might be extremely busy or stressed.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Make a case for why you think you should be paid more—for example, increased responsibilty, good performance, increased input or length of time on the same salary.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Be prepared to offer something else of value to your current role to secure your raise.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Never cite someone else’s higher salary in your company as a reason for why you think you should be paid more, even if they are newer or more junior than you. Your employer will not be impressed that this is public knowledge and it is up to them to pay what they like.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Plan a strategy, should you meet with resistance. Don’t threaten to leave unless you are serious; your resignation might be accepted. Do check when you can ask again and consider if there’s a beneficial training course you could ask the company to pay for that you could attend in the meantime.</span></p>
</body>
</html>