<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev109"><a id="page_137"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PROTECT YOUR HOME COMPUTER</strong></span></p>
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>MALWARE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Sophisticated malware designed to harvest your financial details and passwords is concealed in phishing emails and malicious web links. If you suspect you’ve been attacked, disconnect from the WiFi and use another computer to change all your passwords.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Running an anti-virus program can protect against ransomware, which can take over your computer and demands payment to restore your files.</span></p>
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>BACK UP YOUR FILES</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Keep your software up-to-date and back up your files, so all is not lost under any circumstances.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">All your phone contacts should be shared to your PC or laptop and backed-up regularly, or you could lose the lot. Some linked devices will do this automatically. Otherwise, back up manually via a cable connection.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Use a routine back-up method that’s quick to do as you’re more likely to stick with it—for instance, using an external hard-drive to copy your files to. Cloud-based services have the added advantage of keeping files safe from fire, theft and computer failures as all copies are stored away from your home. Save your work as you go straight to the cloud. Services tend to be free for basic storage capacity and you can install your chosen provider on all your devices, enabling changes to your files or documents to be synced across them all. Subscription charges apply for large amounts of data.</span></p>
</body>
</html>