<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev117"><a id="page_147"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>SEND A FORMAL INVITATION</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Printed invitations are still considered desirable for formal parties and weddings. The wording can vary from relatively informal—”John and Sue invite you for drinks at home”—to highly formal—”Mr. and Mrs. John Bloggs request the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their daughter, Sarah Jane, to Mr. William James Smith”.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The key facts to include are:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Type of event: Drinks, birthday party, wedding, anniversary and so forth.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Who’s hosting the celebration and who it is for, if there’s a difference.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> The start time, date and venue in full and the dress code.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> RSVP: Whom to reply to, how to reply and by when.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Catering details: For example, “drinks and canapés”.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> The time the event is due to draw to a close, if appropriate.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Your printer will have a stock of examples for you to follow and can advise on paper weight, fonts and embellishment if desired.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Allow time for printing and aim to post out the invitations at least six weeks before the event to give the best chance of your guests being available to attend.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Write the name of your guest(s) in full, including titles, in ink in the top left-hand corner if there is no space provided on the invitation for this. Include a reply card with a stamped, self-addressed envelope if you wish, along with any maps, lists of accommodation or other details, as appropriate.</span></p>
</body>
</html>