<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev118"><a id="page_148"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>ANSWER A FORMAL INVITATION</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Some formal invitations include reply cards. If so, fill in the blanks as appropriate and return.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Otherwise reply on writing paper, showing your address at the top. Include the name of your “guest” or “partner” in your reply if the invitation extends beyond just you.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The conventional way to reply follows this formula:</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><em>Miss Sarah Smith thanks Mrs. Nigel Johnson for her kind invitation to drinks and dinner on Friday July 24, which she accepts with great pleasure/which she much regrets being unable to accept.</em></span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For wedding invitations, address the hostess on the front of the envelope when you reply.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The reply customarily mirrors the wording of the invitation:</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><em>Mr. Simon Brown thanks Mr. and Mrs. John Bloggs for the kind invitation to the marriage of their daughter, Sarah Jane, to Mr. William James Smith at St. Peter’s Church, Northington, on Saturday April 16 at 2 p.m. and afterwards at Little Thorpe House and is delighted to accept/regrets that he is unable to accept.</em></span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Nowadays, many hosts like to send out “save the date” email notifications in advance of a formal invitation. These should be replied to promptly using the same wording as above, but in the first person. Unless the formal invitation requests a follow-up RSVP, then the job is done.</span></p>
</body>
</html>