<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev119"><a id="page_149"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE A GOOD IMPRESSION AT A FORMAL DINNER OR EVENT</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Observe the dress code specified on the invitation. Clean, shiny shoes, a crisp shirt and tie and a well-pressed suit show a man who cares about his appearance; for women at a smart wedding it is conventional not to wear black or white, show too much bare skin during the church service or to outshine the bride.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Unless previously agreed with your host, arrive at the time specified on the invitation. This is particularly important for a sit-down dinner or a church service.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">At the dinner table, stand until bidden to sit. Once in your seat, unfold your table napkin and place it on your lap. Always wait for your hostess to start eating before you do. This is also helpful if you are unsure about how to eat something unfamiliar, or what cutlery to use and when.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Talk to the person on your left during the first course, then to the person on your right during the main course. This way, no one is left out of a conversation.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">If the waiting staff are not in constant attendance, ensure that you offer wine, water, condiments and any other item your neighbor might be short of, or that is out of reach, before you serve yourself. Hold serving dishes for them while they help themselves.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Don’t overindulge!</span></p>
</body>
</html>