<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev139"><a id="page_172"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>BE A GOOD LISTENER</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Pay attention. That includes making eye contact, not interrupting the other person and concentrating on them without being distracted by other people or things.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Give the other person space to explain how they feel or what is troubling them without prejudice. Be tolerant of what is being said in order to be supportive, even if it’s not in line with your own opinions.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Being empathetic doesn’t mean hijacking the conversation with examples of what has happened to you, particularly if they are not on the same scale. This will come across as insensitive.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Be sympathetic. Try not to say, “I know how you feel”, as it’s unlikely that you do and it will sound offensive and false. Better to say, “It must be difficult to deal with your feelings about this.” Don’t jump in with judgements. Your ears are needed more than your views.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Hold back on offering a solution too soon into the conversation, it can sometimes come across as a bit dismissive. Wait until you are asked for one, or it’s obvious it’s wanted. Sometimes to share a problem or articulate thoughts out loud is enough for the speaker.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Respect the speaker’s trust in you by considering what has been shared as confidential.</span></p>
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Following up the subject later shows you care about the speaker, unless instinct tells you that it is something they would prefer not to be brought up again.</span></p>
</body>
</html>