<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev146"><a id="page_179"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>READ BODY LANGUAGE</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Interpreting body language comes instinctively to many and we even begin to pick up on overt movements and postures from babyhood. Some signs are obvious, some are not; some movements could be defensive or a warning for you to change your behavior, or they could be movements to put you at your ease. Here are some of the most common:</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Leaning away from you:</strong> You’re invading their space, or either of you could have bad breath.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Arms crossed or folded across the body:</strong> A defensive posture, a sign of discomfort, entrenchment—or your companion could simply be cold!</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Splayed legs when seated:</strong> A confident, relaxed person. Could be a little too casual if serious issues are being discussed.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Fidgeting or thumb twiddling:</strong> Can be a sign of impatience or wishing to be somewhere else.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Hand on hip and one foot forward when standing:</strong> A positive position indicating a good mood.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Fingering neck or collar:</strong> Nervousness, doubt, insecurity.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Crossed legs when seated:</strong> This person is comfortable and receptive.</span></p>
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Arms behind the back when standing:</strong> Says “keep your distance” when a hand is not proffered in greeting. Alternatively, it can indicate the person is feeling relaxed and confident.</span></p>
</body>
</html>