<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Life Skills</title>
<link href="../Styles/epub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:ced23ac5-a086-480f-8712-6ab257cd342a" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="chaptitlea" id="lev152"><a id="page_185"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>ENJOY YOUR OWN COMPANY</strong></span></p>
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s important to know how to enjoy daily life without needing to spend time with others. There may be periods in your life when you live alone, you’re not in a close relationship or friends and family aren’t on tap. Being self-reliant is a good platform to rest upon—or it can be the launch pad to explore new possibilities.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Besides the ability to entertain yourself, it’s good to have some thinking time to reconnect with your own thoughts and values or to allow space for creativity to flourish. However, be wary of aimless TV watching, gaming and fixing on social media as a substitute for companionship. It’s OK to waste time alone, particularly when you’re tired, but putting a little planning into it can help you enjoy your downtime more.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Start to think of time alone as a positive thing. Working out what you enjoy doing and indulging in those activities when you have time to yourself is the first step. Some of these may be home-based, like listening to your favorite music, reading, cooking or painting; others involve getting out—for instance, trying a different sport or rediscovering a former passion.</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Or be adventurous! Take yourself to see a town or city new to you, have a day out by the sea or in the country, or go to the cinema or a gallery. The sense of pleasure and achievement from getting out on solo activities can be immense.</span></p>
</body>
</html>