<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev6"><a id="page_13"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PREPARE AND COOK A ROAST MEAL</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Roast meals will need to be shopped for well in advance of your lunch or dinner plans to allow for cooking times, so plan your meat, vegetables and accompaniments ahead of time.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Roasting times and temperatures for meat will vary according to type and cut. Ask the butcher or check the package label if in doubt.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Plan your cooking times so all the food is ready at the same time. Start with the time the oven needs to go on for the meat, which is the element that will take the longest. Allow time to rest meat before carving. If your meat is cooking on a high heat, your potatoes will take about 1 hour to roast. Give them longer if you are slow-roasting the meat. Roast parsnips take about half the time of potatoes, whereas peppers and red onions take halfway between the two.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>BEST ROASTED POTATOES</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Peel and chop the potatoes into even-sized pieces. Place them in a saucepan of cold, salted water. Bring to the boil and cook until par-boiled—around 7–10 minutes, depending on size. Drain well into a colander and shake gently to rough up the outsides. Heat a generous tablespoon or two of goose or duck fat in a roasting pan in the oven until hot. Remove the pan from the oven, add the potatoes and use a spoon to coat each potato in the melted fat. Roast until crisp and golden, turning once during roasting time.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
