<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev19"><a id="page_27"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE A VICTORIA SPONGE SANDWICH</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">This recipe is fool-proof provided you follow it carefully. It really matters that you measure the quantities accurately, use the prescribed size for the baking tins and DON’T open the oven door during the cooking time.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-c"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>(Serves eight. Prep and cooking time: 40 minutes)</strong></span></p>&#13;
<div class="top">&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">12 tbsp butter, softened</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">about 1 cup golden caster sugar (or regular white caster sugar, if golden is not available)</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">3 medium eggs</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">1.5 cups self-raising flour</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Strawberry, raspberry or other fruit jam</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindentl"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Whipped cream Powdered sugar to decorate</span></p>&#13;
</div>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Heat the oven to 355°F</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Cream the butter and caster sugar together in a large bowl with a hand mixer until they are pale in color. Then add the eggs, one at a time, to the creamed mixture. Beat well.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Sift the flour into the mixture and fold in lightly with a spatula.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Grease and line the bottom of two 7-inch round cake tins. Divide the mixture evenly between the two. Place both tins on the same oven shelf. Bake the sponges for 25 minutes until risen and golden brown. To test they’re done, press the middle of each cake lightly to check the surface springs back a little.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Remove from the oven and let them stand for 1 minute before turning out onto a wire rack to cool. Once they are cold, sandwich the sponge cakes together with jam and whipped cream. Decorate the top with sifted icing sugar.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
