<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev21"><a id="page_29"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MAKE COFFEE</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A coffee capsule machine is convenient for making quick cups or Italian espresso but it is not the cheapest way of making coffee in quantity. Stove-top percolators, French presses or filter coffee machines all use ground coffee: buy this in packets then seal and store in the fridge once opened, or if you have a coffee bean grinder you can produce your own as required.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s important to check the manufacturer’s instructions for each device, but here are some general guidelines for each:</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Stove-top percolator:</strong> Load water into the bottom section and ground coffee into the middle container and assemble. Place on stove. As it heats, the water is drawn up the central shaft through the coffee to fill the top section with a ready-to-pour brew. It will make a bubbling noise when the coffee is ready.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>French press:</strong> Put one scoop of ground coffee per cup into the bottom of the French press. Bring a kettle of water to boil and allow to cool for a minute or two (boiling water scalds coffee and spoils the flavor). Pour in the correct ratio of water to coffee required. Stir. Fit the top on and leave to stand for 3–4 minutes before slowly pushing the plunger all the way down.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> <strong>Filter coffee machine:</strong> Fit a filter paper into the cone-shaped holder in the top. Scoop coffee into the filter paper and pour the corresponding quantity of tap water into the tank. Ensure the collecting jug is in position before turning the machine on. The coffee is ready when the machine stops burbling.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
