<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev33"><a id="page_44"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>HAND-WASH CLOTHES</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Some top-of-the-range washing machines include a gentle hand-wash program, but if you don’t have one of these you’ll need to know how to do it yourself.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">You will need hand-wash laundry liquid, which is gentler on delicate garments and designed to require less rinsing than machine washing detergent.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Gather the garments that you want to hand-wash. Put the amount of detergent recommended on the bottle label into a clean washing-up bowl. For color-fast items, fill the bowl with water that is between warm and hot (comfortable enough to hold your hand in); use cool water for dark or brightly colored clothes that might leach color. Agitate the water with your hand to ensure the detergent is fully dissolved.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Immerse the items—not too many at a time—and use your hands to work the soapy water through them for a minute or so, paying attention to armpit areas and collars where odor and dirt more readily accumulate. Leave to soak for a few minutes if necessary.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Lift the clothes out onto the draining board and tip away the dirty water. Rinse out the suds from the bowl, fill with cool, clean water and rinse the clothes in this by moving them around. Rinse and repeat until the water is clear. Squeeze items gently to remove excess water and hang out to dry.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Roll woolens and other items that need to be dried flat in a large towel to absorb the remaining amount of water.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
