<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev38"><a id="page_51"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>MOP A FLOOR</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Before you start, select the right floor-cleaning product for the type of floor surface. For example, some wood floors may need to be cleaned with a particular product to protect their finish.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Stringy-headed or strip-cloth mops are good for floors that are tiled and ones with surface texture. These mops are best manipulated in a sweeping motion for optimum cleaning performance. Clean wood floors or linoleum with a sponge-headed or soft cloth mop, following the grain of the wood.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Clear the floor space: up-end chairs onto table tops; move small items of furniture like footstools and side tables out of the way and take up rugs.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Sweep or vacuum the whole floor to clean up dust, crumbs and hair.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Fill a bucket with warm water and the recommended amount of floor-cleaning fluid.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>4</strong></span> Dip the mop into the bucket to let it draw up the cleaning solution.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>5</strong></span> Lift the mop and allow excess water to drip back into the bucket before starting to mop. Or, if the mop is the squeezy-sponge type, use the handle mechanism to press out the surplus. This avoids wetting the floor more than necessary.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>6</strong></span> Start in the corner of the room furthest from the door and work in small sections, mopping towards yourself. Rinse the mop frequently, changing the water if necessary.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>7</strong></span> Keep people and pets off the floor until it has dried.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
