<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev46"><a id="page_59"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>POLISH LEATHER FOOTWEAR</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Not only does shiny footwear make a good impression but regularly cleaning your shoes and boots will extend their lifetime. Dirt and water from the street stains and dulls leather—and unless it is fed with shoe polish it also loses its waterproofing, dries and cracks.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Put together a shoe kit: tins of wax polish to match the color of your leather footwear; cleaning cloths or rags; two bristle shoe brushes (one stiff and one soft); and a cotton duster or microfiber cloth for polishing. Add a wire suede brush if you have suede items.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s more efficient to clean multiple pairs of footwear at a time. Spread an old towel or newspaper over the surface on which you want to work, roll your sleeves up and consider wearing an apron with a bib while you work: shoe polish stains are difficult to remove.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">First, ensure your shoes are clean. Wipe leather surfaces with a dampened cleaning cloth to remove all dirt, being careful not to over-wet the leather. Work around the stubborn outer edges and the heels with the cloth until they are clean.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Make sure the leather is dry before applying polish generously with a cloth or rag. Work it into the surface, particularly around any creases and seams. Leave on for 10 minutes. Then use the stiff brush to remove the excess polish, brushing vigorously until there is only a thin coating left. The brush will become stained, so only ever use this brush to take off the polish. Buff with the softer brush to encourage shine before finishing off with the duster or microfiber cloth.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
