<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev49"><a id="page_64"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>PUT UP A SHELF WITH BRACKETS</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Note that if the wall is made of drywall, you’ll need to locate the stud partitions and anchor your shelf brackets to them. Make sure you are confident there are no cables behind the wall; you can download a digital detector app to your phone to help you do this.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Match your shelf and brackets to support the weight of the load you intend them to hold. You’ll need a stronger set for heavy books than for ornaments or cosmetics.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Hold the shelf against the wall and, with a pencil, mark where the bottom of the shelf should go. Use a level for perfection. Do the same with the brackets, spacing the distance between them equally.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Place each bracket straight against the wall, with the long side pointing downwards, and put a pencil mark in each fixing hole.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Drill holes in the wall where the brackets should go, using a wall plug on a masonry wall (see “How to hang a picture”). Insert screws into the bracket holes and secure the brackets to the wall.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">To fix the shelf onto the brackets: place it on top, center it and pencil mark the underneath through the fixing holes. Remove the shelf and drill small, shallow holes where you marked. These are guide or “pilot” holes. Put the shelf back on the brackets and, to be sure they don’t come right through to the top surface, use short screws to connect the two together.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
