<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev50"><a id="page_65"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>REMOVE A NAIL AND FILL HOLES</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>REMOVE A NAIL</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">A claw-end hammer is the right tool for extracting nails from a wall or floor.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Slide the claw under the nail head so the nail is held in the “V”. Use a sideways rocking motion to lift and work the nail out of the surface. The outer edge of the claw can dent and damage a wood floor or a decorated wall, so perform this task slowly and carefully; alternatively, slide a thin strip of wood or a ruler under the claw edge before you start.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="Ssubhead"><span class="cl_F26760"><strong>FILL A CRACK OR HOLE</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Ready-mixed fillers come in different grades to suit the holes you need to fill—from fine-surface fillers for small cracks to the deep-repair type.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Dampen a crack before you fill it to prevent the filler from drying too quickly and shrinking. Apply the filler with a palette knife, pressing it into the crack. Once dry, sand down excess filler with sandpaper wrapped round a block of wood.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">To fill a nail hole, give it a light bang with a hammer to push any rough edges back into the hole. Apply general-purpose filler and sand when dry.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For large holes it’s better to build up layers of filler, letting each one dry thoroughly before applying the next.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
