<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev65"><a id="page_81"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>RECYCLE AND MANAGE TRASH</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Understand your local government’s recycling policy, which can vary from district to district. Placing an incompatible or dirty item in the recycling can ruin a whole batch and incur substantial disposal costs for the council.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">General rules for recycling:</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> All items need to be completely clean and dry, so no empty pizza boxes or ketchup bottles with smeary necks.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Most lids or bottle tops can’t be recycled.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Check labels on all plastic bottles, tubs and film for recycling symbols. Not all are suitable.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Sometimes only certain components of packaging can be recycled—for example, tissue boxes where the cardboard is recyclable but not the plastic film insert.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Don’t leave waste beside trash cans or let it overflow. Foxes and other local wildlife will rip into the bags and scatter the contents. Have enough strong galvanized trash bins with tight-fitting lids to accommodate all your food waste and other non-recyclables. Line them with bin liners to save on cleaning and to contain smells.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Rinse all household trash cans with disinfectant and water periodically.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">For a fee, you can arrange a special collection by most councils for large items like old sofas, fridges or washing machines. Alternatively, post details on an online community recycling scheme in your vicinity where locals can come and collect your unwanted stuff for free.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
