<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev87"><a id="page_109"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>TELL A GOOD GHOST STORY</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Do it in the dark. Create the right atmosphere before you start and your audience will be ready to immerse themselves in your tale—seated round a campfire with their backs to the dark unknown behind them makes a good setting. Candlelight or low lamplight works in indoor shelters, particularly if the wind is howling outside.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Seek eye contact with the individual you are spinning your story to, keeping your voice low and speaking slowly—these techniques will help to keep them engaged as you build up to the finale.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Tell or adapt a story to fit a location that your listeners know, or one that you all walked past that day—the graveyard of the church, the house with the bricked-up windows, the old mine shaft, the copse on the hillside, the dark pool deep in the woods… Make one up if you’re feeling brave but ground it in reality rather than fantasy and you’ll be more likely to wind your audience into a state of suspense.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Weave your story round darker, more primal elements like water, winter, decay, death or animals.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Aim to subtly frighten rather than terrify. A suggestion of terror rather than full-on scariness is much more effective. Evoke unease by describing a whisper, a rustle, a shape, a shadow, a smell or a sensation and let your listeners’ imaginations do the work for you.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
