<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev94"><a id="page_120"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>TREAT A MILD BURN</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Mild, first-degree burn symptoms are redness of the skin, mild pain, swelling and skin peeling that occurs a day or so later. First-degree burns tend to heal after a few days; some may take longer depending on the part of the body that is affected.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Sunburn and scalds are the most usual causes of first-degree burns. Burns caused by exposure to electricity can have the appearance of a first-degree burn, but mask more damage below the surface of the skin, so always seek medical treatment for electrical or chemical burns and treat a burn as soon as possible to limit the amount of damage to your skin.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>1</strong></span> Apply cool or lukewarm running water directly to the burn for at least 10 minutes. Don’t pour iced water or apply ice to the area as this can damage the skin tissue further. Creams or greasy ointments should also not be applied, although a thin layer of petroleum jelly or aloe vera is fine.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>2</strong></span> Take paracetamol or ibuprofen if the pain is bothersome.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>3</strong></span> Protect the burn from rubbing by taping a sterile gauze dressing lightly over it. Change this once a day as you wait for the burn to heal. Don’t be tempted to break blisters that occur. An open blister can get infected.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-num"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="num"><strong>4</strong></span> Seek professional help for large or deep burns, burns of any size with white or charred skin and for burn blisters on the face, hands, arms, feet, legs or genitals.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
