<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev98"><a id="page_124"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>CHECK YOUR HEALTH</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Self-monitoring is a good way to keep an eye out for any changes in your health that might require medical help, as well as being a way of generally keeping you in fine fettle. Even if you are super-healthy be sure to register with a local doctor’s office.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Book regular eye tests at the opticians. Every two years is recommended.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Ideally, visit your dentist twice a year for a check-up of your teeth and gums and for a clean by the hygienist. Dentists also check the health of the inside of your mouth—this is extra important if you smoke.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> A blood pressure reading of more than 90 over 60 (90/60) and less than 120 over 80 (120/80) is ideal. A higher reading might indicate a change in lifestyle is required. If your blood pressure tends to be higher than normal and requires regular monitoring, invest in a home monitoring device.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Women aged 25–49 are offered cervical screening—a pap smear test—every three years through their doctor. Keep your checks up-to-date.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Consider having a flu shot each fall.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Check your Body Mass Index (BMI) to make sure that your weight falls in the right range for your height. See <a href="https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/index.html">https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/assessing/index.html</a></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Check breasts or testicles once a month. Look at them in the mirror and feel them to monitor any changes. Changes, including lumps, can occur for many reasons and the vast majority of lumps are not cancerous. However, you should always have any changes checked out.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
