<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev122"><a id="page_152"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>BE A GOOD HOUSEMATE OR NEIGHBOR</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Pay your share of agreed bills on time, including food and household items.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t space-invade: keep common areas tidy, know when to retreat to your room and don’t borrow personal items without asking.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Keep sinks, basins, toilets, and baths clean for the next person.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Don’t use the last of something without replacing it: milk, toilet roll and so forth.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Got some of next door’s mail? Make sure you give it to them; missed mail could have serious consequences for the recipients.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Give any neighbors a few days’ notice if you are planning a loud or large party.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> In the summer months, keep music, radio and TV noise down if you have windows open.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Keep party noise to weekends and not beyond midnight. If you want to carry on, turn any music down, keep windows and doors shut or go clubbing instead. Loud mobile phone calls in the yard are a no-no, too.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Keep your household waste in trash cans with the lids firmly on. No one wants to see or smell your rubbish and loose trash bags will be ripped open by local wildlife and pets.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent-bull"><span class="cl_4A4B62"><span class="bull">•</span> Keep yards tidy and weed-free—a landlord’s requirement if you are renting.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
