<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev132"><a id="page_164"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>ACCEPT A COMPLIMENT</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Compliments are lovely to receive. They are a measure of being noticed by others for something positive about ourselves.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">It’s often a surprise when we receive a compliment from others and therefore it is easy to be flummoxed on the occasion it happens. A natural default is to look embarrassed and to either mumble a self-deprecating comment, or deny what is being said to us. Really, this is false modesty and unintentionally takes away from the kindness intended by the person giving the compliment. The other person has shown generosity of spirit in offering the compliment in the first place and to deflect their kind words is not polite. It can imply that their compliment is not sincere or that their judgement is poor.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">The trick is to not be blindsided by a well-meaning accolade and to accept it gracefully by saying, “Thank you. That is so kind of you to say so.”—or words to that effect—delivered with a smile.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Do share credit when it is due to others besides yourself, by naming who else should be included when the compliment is unwittingly directed to you alone.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
