<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head/>
  <body><p class="chaptitlea" id="lev143"><a id="page_176"/><span class="bg_chap"><strong>HOW TO</strong></span><br/><span class="cl_4A4B62"><strong>BE A GOOD PUBLIC SPEAKER</strong></span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindenta"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Preparation and practice are key to success. Know your subject well, make your content engaging and your confidence will be boosted. Have a firm grasp of who your audience is, too: how deep is their knowledge of your subject matter? An understanding of this will enable you to pitch your speech at the right level.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Have structure. Start with an anecdote or joke that leads into the theme of your talk. Use examples judiciously throughout to bring alive the points you are making in listeners’ heads. Finish with a summary and call to action and encourage the audience to ask questions at the end.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Plan your aids—slides, video and audio clips, props, interactive exercises, etc.—and make sure that they work before the talk. If in doubt, keep it simple. Prompts like index cards can be helpful memory joggers. A single-word reminder of a concept is more efficient than an overload of exact words.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Practice in front of a mirror or to a willing helper—or consider recording your speech. Review for the following:</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Length/timing.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Volume and clarity of voice.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Speed of delivery.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Fluidity.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="indent-bull"><span class="cl_F26760"><span class="bull">•</span> Filler words to filter out, such as “um”, “so” and “like”.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">On the day, dress professionally and leave no chance for wardrobe malfunction. Check your tech is working and connected to the Wi-Fi.</span></p>&#13;
<p class="noindent"><span class="cl_4A4B62">Seek friendly faces dotted around the audience and address yourself to them.</span></p>&#13;
</body>
</html>
